SILVER AND OPALS Where was Dumbledore, and what was he doing? 
Harry caught sight of the headmaster only twice over 
the next few weeks. He rarely appeared at meals 
anymore, and Harry was sure Hermione was right in 
thinking that he was leaving the school for days at a 
time. Had Dumbledore forgotten the lessons he was 
supposed to be giving Harry? Dumbledore had said 
that the lessons were leading to something to do with 
the prophecy; Harry had felt bolstered, comforted, 
and now he felt slightly abandoned. Halfway through October came their first trip of the 
term to Hogsmeade. Harry had wondered whether 
these trips would still be allowed, given the 
increasingly tight security measures around the 
school, but was pleased to know that they were going 
ahead; it was always good to get out of the castle 
grounds for a few hours. Harry woke early on the morning of the trip, which 
was proving stormy, and whiled away the time until Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling breakfast by reading his copy of Advanced Potion- 
Making. He did not usually lie in bed reading his 
textbooks; that sort of behavior, as Ron rightly said, 
was indecent in anybody except Hermione, who was 
simply weird that way. Harry felt, however, that the 
Half-Blood Prince’s copy of Advanced Potion-Making 
hardly qualified as a textbook. The more Harry pored 
over the book, the more he realized how much was in 
there, not only the handy hints and shortcuts on 
potions that were earning him such a glowing 
reputation with Slughorn, but also the imaginative 
little jinxes and hexes scribbled in the margins, which 
Harry was sure, judging by the crossings-out and 
revisions, that the Prince had invented himself. Harry had already attempted a few of the Prince’s self- 
invented spells. There had been a hex that caused 
toenails to grow alarmingly fast (he had tried this on 
Crabbe in the corridor, with very entertaining results); 
a jinx that glued the tongue to the roof of the mouth 
(which he had twice used, to general applause, on an 
unsuspecting Argus Filch); and, perhaps most useful 
of all, Muffliato, a spell that filled the ears of anyone 
nearby with an unidentifiable buzzing, so that lengthy 
conversations could be held in class without being 
overheard. The only person who did not find these 
charms amusing was Hermione, who maintained a 
rigidly disapproving expression throughout and 
refused to talk at all if Harry had used the Muffliato 
spell on anyone in the vicinity. Sitting up in bed, Harry turned the book sideways so 
as to examine more closely the scribbled instructions 
for a spell that seemed to have caused the Prince 
some trouble. There were many crossings-out and 
alterations, but finally, crammed into a corner of the 
page, the scribble: Levicorpus (nvbl) Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling While the wind and sleet pounded relentlessly on the 
windows, and Neville snored loudly, Harry stared at 
the letters in brackets. Nvbl ... that had to mean 
“nonverbal.” Harry rather doubted he would be able 
to bring off this particular spell; he was still having 
difficulty with nonverbal spells, something Snape had 
been quick to comment on in every D.A.D.A. class. On 
the other hand, the Prince had proved a much more 
effective teacher than Snape so far. Pointing his wand at nothing in particular, he gave it 
an upward flick and said Levicorpusl inside his head. “ Aaaaaaaargh ! ” There was a flash of light and the room was full of 
voices: Everyone had woken up as Ron had let out a 
yell. Harry sent Advanced Potion-Making flying in 
panic; Ron was dangling upside down in midair as 
though an invisible hook had hoisted him up by the 
ankle. “Sorry!” yelled Harry, as Dean and Seamus roared 
with laughter, and Neville picked himself up from the 
floor, having fallen out of bed. “Hang on — I’ll let you 
down — ” He groped for the potion book and riffled through it in 
a panic, trying to find the right page; at last he 
located it and deciphered one cramped word 
underneath the spell: Praying that this was the 
counter-jinx, Harry thought Liberacorpus\ with all his 
might. There was another flash of light, and Ron fell in a 
heap onto his mattress. “Sorry,” repeated Harry weakly, while Dean and 
Seamus continued to roar with laughter. Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “Tomorrow,” said Ron in a muffled voice, “I’d rather 
you set the alarm clock.” By the time they had got dressed, padding themselves 
out with several of Mrs. Weasley’s hand-knitted 
sweaters and carrying cloaks, scarves, and gloves, 
Ron’s shock had subsided and he had decided that 
Harry’s new spell was highly amusing; so amusing, in 
fact, that he lost no time in regaling Hermione with 
the story as they sat down for breakfast. "... and then there was another flash of light and I 
landed on the bed again!” Ron grinned, helping 
himself to sausages. Hermione had not cracked a smile during this 
anecdote, and now turned an expression of wintry 
disapproval upon Harry. “Was this spell, by any chance, another one from that 
potion book of yours?” she asked. Harry frowned at her. “Always jump to the worst conclusion, don’t you?” 
“Was it?” “Well ... yeah, it was, but so what?” “So you just decided to try out an unknown, 
handwritten incantation and see what would 
happen?” “Why does it matter if it’s handwritten?” said Harry, 
preferring not to answer the rest of the question. “Because it’s probably not Ministry of Magic- 
approved,” said Hermione. “And also,” she added, as Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Harry and Ron rolled their eyes, “because I’m starting 
to think this Prince character was a bit dodgy.” Both Harry and Ron shouted her down at once. “It was a laugh!” said Ron, upending a ketchup bottle 
over his sausages. “Just a laugh, Hermione, that’s 
all!” “Dangling people upside down by the ankle?” said 
Hermione. “Who puts their time and energy into 
making up spells like that?” “Fred and George,” said Ron, shrugging, “it’s their 
kind of thing. And, er — ” “My dad,” said Harry. He had only just remembered. “What?” said Ron and Hermione together. “My dad used this spell,” said Harry. “I — Lupin told 
me.” This last part was not true; in fact, Harry had seen 
his father use the spell on Snape, but he had never 
told Ron and Hermione about that particular 
excursion into the Pensieve. Now, however, a 
wonderful possibility occurred to him. Could the Half- 
Blood Prince possibly be — ? “Maybe your dad did use it, Harry,” said Hermione, 
“but he’s not the only one. We’ve seen a whole bunch 
of people use it, in case you’ve forgotten. Dangling 
people in the air. Making them float along, asleep, 
helpless.” Harry stared at her. With a sinking feeling, he too 
remembered the behavior of the Death Eaters at the 
Quidditch World Cup. Ron came to his aid. Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “That was different,” he said robustly. “They were 
abusing it. Harry and his dad were just having a 
laugh. You don’t like the Prince, Hermione,” he added, 
pointing a sausage at her sternly, “because he’s better 
than you at Potions — ” “It’s got nothing to do with that!” said Hermione, her 
cheeks reddening. “I just think it’s very irresponsible 
to start performing spells when you don’t even know 
what they’re for, and stop talking about ‘the Prince’ as 
if it’s his title, I bet it’s just a stupid nickname, and it 
doesn’t seem as though he was a very nice person to 
me!” “I don’t see where you get that from,” said Harry 
heatedly. “If he’d been a budding Death Eater he 
wouldn’t have been boasting about being ‘half-blood,’ 
would he?” Even as he said it, Harry remembered that his father 
had been pure-blood, but he pushed the thought out 
of his mind; he would worry about that later. ... “The Death Eaters can’t all be pure-blood, there aren’t 
enough pure-blood wizards left,” said Hermione 
stubbornly. “I expect most of them are half-bloods 
pretending to be pure. It’s only Muggle-borns they 
hate, they’d be quite happy to let you and Ron join 
up.” “There is no way they’d let me be a Death Eater!” said 
Ron indignantly, a bit of sausage flying off the fork he 
was now brandishing at Hermione and hitting Ernie 
Macmillan on the head. “My whole family are blood 
traitors! That’s as bad as Muggle-borns to Death 
Eaters!” Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “And they’d love to have me,” said Harry sarcastically. 
“We’d be best pals if they didn’t keep trying to do me in. 