“Because he didn’t want to touch it, obviously!” said 
Harry angrily. “What he actually said was, ‘How would I look 
carrying that down the street?’ ” said Hermione. “Well, he would look a bit of a prat carrying a 
necklace,” interjected Ron. “Oh, Ron,” said Hermione despairingly, “it would be 
all wrapped up, so he wouldn’t have to touch it, and 
quite easy to hide inside a cloak, so nobody would see 
it! I think whatever he reserved at Borgin and Burkes 
was noisy or bulky, something he knew would draw 
attention to him if he carried it down the street — and 
in any case,” she pressed on loudly, before Harry 
could interrupt, “I asked Borgin about the necklace, 
don’t you remember? When I went in to try and find 
out what Malfoy had asked him to keep, I saw it 
there. And Borgin just told me the price, he didn’t say 
it was already sold or anything — ” “Well, you were being really obvious, he realized what 
you were up to within about five seconds, of course 
he wasn’t going to tell you — anyway, Malfoy could’ve 
sent off for it since — ” “That’s enough!” said Professor McGonagall, as 
Hermione opened her mouth to retort, looking 
furious. “Potter, I appreciate you telling me this, but 
we cannot point the finger of blame at Mr. Malfoy 
purely because he visited the shop where this 
necklace might have been purchased. The same is 
probably true of hundreds of people — ” Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “ — that’s what I said — ” muttered Ron. “ — and in any case, we have put stringent security 
measures in place this year. I do not believe that 
necklace can possibly have entered this school 
without our knowledge — ” “But — ” “ — and what is more,” said Professor McGonagall, 
with an air of awful finality, “Mr. Malfoy was not in 
Hogsmeade today.” Harry gaped at her, deflating. “How do you know, Professor?” “Because he was doing detention with me. He has 
now failed to complete his Transfiguration homework 
twice in a row. So, thank you for telling me your 
suspicions, Potter,” she said as she marched past 
them, “but I need to go up to the hospital wing now to 
check on Katie Bell. Good day to you all.” She held open her office door. They had no choice but 
to file past her without another word. Harry was angry with the other two for siding with 
McGonagall; nevertheless, he felt compelled to join in 
once they started discussing what had happened. “So who do you reckon Katie was supposed to give the 
necklace to?” asked Ron, as they climbed the stairs to 
the common room. “Goodness only knows,” said Hermione. “But whoever 
it was has had a narrow escape. No one could have 
opened that package without touching the necklace.” Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “It could’ve been meant for loads of people,” said 
Harry. “Dumbledore — the Death Eaters would love to 
get rid of him, he must be one of their top targets. Or 
Slughorn — Dumbledore reckons Voldemort really 
wanted him and they can’t be pleased that he’s sided 
with Dumbledore. Or — ” “Or you,” said Hermione, looking troubled. “Couldn’t have been,” said Harry, “or Katie would’ve 
just turned around in the lane and given it to me, 
wouldn’t she? I was behind her all the way out of the 
Three Broomsticks. It would have made much more 
sense to deliver the parcel outside Hogwarts, what 
with Filch searching everyone who goes in and out. I 
wonder why Malfoy told her to take it into the castle?” “Harry, Malfoy wasn’t in Hogsmeade!” said Hermione, 
actually stamping her foot in frustration. “He must have used an accomplice, then,” said Harry. 
“Crabbe or Goyle — or, come to think of it, another 
Death Eater, he’ll have loads better cronies than 
Crabbe and Goyle now he’s joined up — ” Ron and Hermione exchanged looks that plainly said 
There’s no point arguing with him. “Dilligrout,” said Hermione firmly as they reached the 
Fat Lady. The portrait swung open to admit them to the 
common room. It was quite full and smelled of damp 
clothing; many people seemed to have returned from 
Hogsmeade early because of the bad weather. There 
was no buzz of fear or speculation, however: Clearly, 
the news of Katie’s fate had not yet spread. Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “It wasn’t a very slick attack, really, when you stop 
and think about it,” said Ron, casually turfing a first 
year out of one of the good armchairs by the fire so 
that he could sit down. “The curse didn’t even make it 
into the castle. Not what you’d call foolproof.” “You’re right,” said Hermione, prodding Ron out of the 
chair with her foot and offering it to the first year 
again. “It wasn’t very well thought-out at all.” “But since when has Malfoy been one of the world’s 
great thinkers?” asked Harry. Neither Ron nor Hermione answered him. Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 