FLIGHT OF THE PRINCE Harry felt as though he too were hurtling through 
space; it had not happened. ...It could not have 
happened. ... “Out of here, quickly,” said Snape. He seized Malfoy by the scruff of the neck and forced 
him through the door ahead of the rest; Greyback and 
the squat brother and sister followed, the latter both 
panting excitedly. As they vanished through the door, 
Harry realized he could move again. What was now 
holding him paralyzed against the wall was not magic, 
but horror and shock. He threw the Invisibility Cloak 
aside as the brutal-faced Death Eater, last to leave 
the tower top, was disappearing through the door. “Petrificus Totalusl” The Death Eater buckled as though hit in the back 
with something solid and fell to the ground, rigid as a 
waxwork, but he had barely hit the floor when Harry Page | 671 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling was clambering over him and running down the 
darkened staircase. Terror tore at Harry’s heart. ... He had to get to 
Dumbledore and he had to catch Snape. ... Somehow 
the two things were linked. ... He could reverse what 
had happened if he had them both together. . . . 
Dumbledore could not have died. ... He leapt the last ten steps of the spiral staircase and 
stopped where he landed, his wand raised: The dimly 
lit corridor was full of dust; half the ceiling seemed to 
have fallen in; and a battle was raging before him, but 
even as he attempted to make out who was fighting 
whom, he heard the hated voice shout, “It’s over, time 
to go\” and saw Snape disappearing around the corner 
at the far end of the corridor; he and Malfoy seemed 
to have forced their way through the fight unscathed. 
As Harry plunged after them, one of the fighters 
detached themselves from the fray and flew at him: It 
was the werewolf, Fenrir. He was on top of Harry 
before Harry could raise his wand: Harry fell 
backward, with filthy matted hair in his face, the 
stench of sweat and blood filling his nose and mouth, 
hot greedy breath at his throat — “Petrificus Totalusl” Harry felt Fenrir collapse against him; with a 
stupendous effort he pushed the werewolf off and 
onto the floor as a jet of green light came flying 
toward him; he ducked and ran, headfirst, into the 
fight. His feet met something squashy and slippery on 
the floor and he stumbled: There were two bodies 
lying there, lying facedown in a pool of blood, but 
there was no time to investigate. Harry now saw red 
hair flying like flames in front of him: Ginny was 
locked in combat with the lumpy Death Eater, 
Amycus, who was throwing hex after hex at her while 
Page | 672 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling she dodged them: Amycus was giggling, enjoying the 
sport: “Crucio — Crucio — you can’t dance forever, 
pretty — ” “Impedimenta).” yelled Harry. His jinx hit Amycus in the chest: He gave a piglike 
squeal of pain, was lifted off his feet and slammed 
into the opposite wall, slid down it, and fell out of 
sight behind Ron, Professor McGonagall, and Lupin, 
each of whom was battling a separate Death Eater. 
Beyond them, Harry saw Tonks fighting an enormous 
blond wizard who was sending curses flying in all 
directions, so that they ricocheted off the walls 
around them, cracking stone, shattering the nearest 
window — “Harry, where did you come from?” Ginny cried, but 
there was no time to answer her. He put his head 
down and sprinted forward, narrowly avoiding a blast 
that erupted over his head, showering them all in bits 
of wall. Snape must not escape, he must catch up 
with Snape — “Take that\” shouted Professor McGonagall, and Harry 
glimpsed the female Death Eater, Alecto, sprinting 
away down the corridor with her arms over her head, 
her brother right behind her. He launched himself 
after them but his foot caught on something, and next 
moment he was lying across someone’s legs. Looking 
around, he saw Neville’s pale, round face flat against 
the floor. “Neville, are you — ?” “M’all right,” muttered Neville, who was clutching his 
stomach, “Harry ... Snape ’n’ Malfoy ... ran past ...” Page | 673 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “I know, I’m on it!” said Harry, aiming a hex from the 
floor at the enormous blond Death Eater who was 
causing most of the chaos. The man gave a howl of 
pain as the spell hit him in the face: He wheeled 
around, staggered, and then pounded away after the 
brother and sister. Harry scrambled up from the floor 
and began to sprint along the corridor, ignoring the 
bangs issuing from behind him, the yells of the others 
to come back, and the mute call of the figures on the 
ground whose fate he did not yet know. ... He skidded around the corner, his trainers slippery 
with blood; Snape had an immense head start. Was it 
possible that he had already entered the cabinet in 
the Room of Requirement, or had the Order made 
steps to secure it, to prevent the Death Eaters 
retreating that way? He could hear nothing but his 
own pounding feet, his own hammering heart as he 
sprinted along the next empty corridor, but then 
spotted a bloody footprint that showed at least one of 
the fleeing Death Eaters was heading toward the front 
doors — perhaps the Room of Requirement was 
indeed blocked — He skidded around another corner and a curse flew 
past him; he dived behind a suit of armor that 
exploded. He saw the brother and sister running 
down the marble staircase ahead and aimed jinxes at 
them, but merely hit several bewigged witches in a 
portrait on the landing, who ran screeching into 
neighboring paintings. As he leapt the wreckage of 
armor, Harry heard more shouts and screams; other 
people within the castle seemed to have awoken. ... He pelted toward a shortcut, hoping to overtake the 
brother and sister and close in on Snape and Malfoy, 
who must surely have reached the grounds by now. 
Remembering to leap the vanishing step halfway 
down the concealed staircase, he burst through a 
Page | 674 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling tapestry at the bottom and out into a corridor where a 
number of bewildered and pajama-clad Hufflepuffs 
stood. “Harry! We heard a noise, and someone said 
something about the Dark Mark — ” began Ernie 
Macmillan. “Out of the way!” yelled Harry, knocking two boys 
aside as he sprinted toward the landing and down the 
remainder of the marble staircase. The oak front 
doors had been blasted open, there were smears of 
blood on the flagstones, and several terrified students 
stood huddled against the walls, one or two still 
cowering with their arms over their faces. The giant 
Gryffindor hourglass had been hit by a curse, and the 
rubies within were still falling, with a loud rattle, onto 
the flagstones below. Harry flew across the entrance hall and out into the 
dark grounds: He could just make out three figures 
racing across the lawn, heading for the gates beyond 
which they could Disapparate — by the looks of them, 
the huge blond Death Eater and, some way ahead of 
him, Snape and Malfoy ... The cold night air ripped at Harry’s lungs as he tore 
after them; he saw a flash of light in the distance that 
momentarily silhouetted his quarry. He did not know 
what it was but continued to run, not yet near 
enough to get a good aim with a curse — Another flash, shouts, retaliatory jets of light, and 
Harry understood: Hagrid had emerged from his 
cabin and was trying to stop the Death Eaters 
escaping, and though every breath seemed to shred 
his lungs and the stitch in his chest was like fire, 
Harry sped up as an unbidden voice in his head said: 
not Hagrid . . . not Hagrid too . . . Page | 675 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Something caught Harry hard in the small of the back 
and he fell forward, his face smacking the ground, 
blood pouring out of both nostrils: He knew, even as 
he rolled over, his wand ready, that the brother and 
sister he had overtaken using his shortcut were 
closing in behind him. ... “Impedimenta).” he yelled as he rolled over again, 
crouching close to the dark ground, and miraculously 
his jinx hit one of them, who stumbled and fell, 
tripping up the other; Harry leapt to his feet and 
sprinted on after Snape. And now he saw the vast outline of Hagrid, 
illuminated by the light of the crescent moon revealed 
suddenly behind clouds; the blond Death Eater was 
aiming curse after curse at the gamekeeper; but 
Hagrid’s immense strength and the toughened skin 
he had inherited from his giantess mother seemed to 
be protecting him. Snape and Malfoy, however, were 
still running; they would soon be beyond the gates, 
able to Disapparate — Harry tore past Hagrid and his opponent, took aim at 
Snape’s back, and yelled, “Stupefy\” He missed; the jet of red light soared past Snape’s 
head; Snape shouted, “Run, Draco\” and turned. 
Twenty yards apart, he and Harry looked at each 
other before raising their wands simultaneously. “Cruc — ” But Snape parried the curse, knocking Harry 
backward off his feet before he could complete it; 
Harry rolled over and scrambled back up again as the 
huge Death Eater behind him yelled, “Incendiol” Harry 
heard an explosive bang and a dancing orange light 
spilled over all of them: Hagrid’s house was on fire. 
Page | 676 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “Fang’s in there, yer evil — !” Hagrid bellowed. “Cruc — ” yelled Harry for the second time, aiming for 
the figure ahead illuminated in the dancing firelight, 
but Snape blocked the spell again. Harry could see 
him sneering. “No Unforgivable Curses from you, Potter!” he 
shouted over the rushing of the flames, Hagrid’s yells, 
and the wild yelping of the trapped Fang. “You haven’t 
got the nerve or the ability — ” “Incarc — ” Harry roared, but Snape deflected the spell 
with an almost lazy flick of his arm. “Fight back!” Harry screamed at him. “Fight back, you 
cowardly — ” “Coward, did you call me, Potter?” shouted Snape. 
“Your father would never attack me unless it was four 
on one, what would you call him, I wonder?” “ Stupe — ” “Blocked again and again and again until you learn to 
keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, Potter!” 
sneered Snape, deflecting the curse once more. “Now 
come!” he shouted at the huge Death Eater behind 
Harry. “It is time to be gone, before the Ministry turns 
up — ” “Impedi — ” But before he could finish this jinx, excruciating pain 
hit Harry; he keeled over in the grass. Someone was 
screaming, he would surely die of this agony, Snape 
was going to torture him to death or madness — Page | 677 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “No!” roared Snape’s voice and the pain stopped as 
suddenly as it had started; Harry lay curled on the 
dark grass, clutching his wand and panting; 
somewhere overhead Snape was shouting, “Have you 
forgotten our orders? Potter belongs to the Dark Lord 
— we are to leave him! Go! Go!” And Harry felt the ground shudder under his face as 
the brother and sister and the enormous Death Eater 
obeyed, running toward the gates. Harry uttered an 
inarticulate yell of rage: In that instant, he cared not 
whether he lived or died. Pushing himself to his feet 
again, he staggered blindly toward Snape, the man he 
now hated as much as he hated Voldemort himself — “Sectum — !” Snape flicked his wand and the curse was repelled yet 
again; but Harry was mere feet away now and he 
could see Snape’s face clearly at last: He was no 
longer sneering or jeering; the blazing flames showed 
a face full of rage. Mustering all his powers of 
concentration, Harry thought, Levi — “No, Potter!” screamed Snape. There was a loud BANG 
and Harry was soaring backward, hitting the ground 
hard again, and this time his wand flew out of his 
hand. He could hear Hagrid yelling and Fang howling 
as Snape closed in and looked down on him where he 
lay, wandless and defenseless as Dumbledore had 
been. Snape’s pale face, illuminated by the flaming 
cabin, was suffused with hatred just as it had been 
before he had cursed Dumbledore. “You dare use my own spells against me, Potter? It 
was I who invented them — I, the Half-Blood Prince! 
And you’d turn my inventions on me, like your filthy 
father, would you? I don’t think so ... no!” Page | 678 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Harry had dived for his wand; Snape shot a hex at it 
and it flew feet away into the darkness and out of 
sight. “Kill me then,” panted Harry, who felt no fear at all, 
but only rage and contempt. “Kill me like you killed 
him, you coward — ” “DONT — ” screamed Snape, and his face was 
suddenly demented, inhuman, as though he was in 
as much pain as the yelping, howling dog stuck in the 
burning house behind them — “CALL ME COWARD!” And he slashed at the air: Harry felt a white-hot, 
whiplike something hit him across the face and was 
slammed backward into the ground. Spots of light 
burst in front of his eyes and for a moment all the 
breath seemed to have gone from his body, then he 
heard a rush of wings above him and something 
enormous obscured the stars. Buckbeak had flown at 
Snape, who staggered backward as the razor-sharp 
claws slashed at him. As Harry raised himself into a 
sitting position, his head still swimming from its last 
contact with the ground, he saw Snape running as 
hard as he could, the enormous beast flapping behind 
him and screeching as Harry had never heard him 
screech — Harry struggled to his feet, looking around groggily for 
his wand, hoping to give chase again, but even as his 
fingers fumbled in the grass, discarding twigs, he 
knew it would be too late, and sure enough, by the 
time he had located his wand, he turned only to see 
the hippogriff circling the gates. Snape had managed 
to Disapparate just beyond the school’s boundaries. “Hagrid,” muttered Harry, still dazed, looking around. 
“HAGRID?” Page | 679 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling He stumbled toward the burning house as an 
enormous figure emerged from out of the flames 
carrying Fang on his back. With a cry of 
thankfulness, Harry sank to his knees; he was 
shaking in every limb, his body ached all over, and 
his breath came in painful stabs. “Yeh all righ’, Harry? Yeh all righ’? Speak ter me, 
Harry. ...” Hagrid’s huge, hairy face was swimming above Harry, 
blocking out the stars. Harry could smell burnt wood 
and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fang’s 
reassuringly warm and alive body quivering beside 
him. “I’m all right,” panted Harry. “Are you?” “ ’Course I am ... take more’n that ter finish me.” Hagrid put his hands under Harry’s arms and raised 
him up with such force that Harry’s feet momentarily 
left the ground before Hagrid set him upright again. He could see blood trickling down Hagrid’s cheek 
from a deep cut under one eye, which was swelling 
rapidly. “We should put out your house,” said Harry, “the 
charm’s ‘Aguamenti’ ...” “Knew it was summat like that,” mumbled Hagrid, 
and he raised a smoldering pink, flowery umbrella 
and said, “Aguamenti\” A jet of water flew out of the umbrella tip. Harry 
raised his wand arm, which felt like lead, and 
murmured “Aguamenti’ too: Together, he and Hagrid 
poured water on the house until the last flame was 
extinguished. Page | 680 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “S’not too bad,” said Hagrid hopefully a few minutes 
later, looking at the smoking wreck. “Nothin’ 
Dumbledore won’ be able to put righ’ ...” Harry felt a searing pain in his stomach at the sound 
of the name. In the silence and the stillness, horror 
rose inside him. “Hagrid ...” “I was bindin’ up a couple o’ bowtruckle legs when I 
heard ’em cornin’,” said Hagrid sadly, still staring at 
his wrecked cabin. “They’ll’ve bin burnt ter twigs, 
poor little things. ...” “Hagrid ...” “But what happened, Harry? I jus’ saw them Death 
Eaters runnin’ down from the castle, but what the 
ruddy hell was Snape doin’ with ’em? Where’s he gone 
— was he chasin’ them?” “He ...” Harry cleared his throat; it was dry from panic 
and the smoke. “Hagrid, he killed ...” “Killed?” said Hagrid loudly, staring down at Harry. 
“Snape killed? What’re yeh on abou’, Harry?” “Dumbledore,” said Harry. “Snape killed ... 
Dumbledore.” Hagrid simply looked at him, the little of his face that 
could be seen completely blank, uncomprehending. “Dumbledore wha’, Harry?” “He’s dead. Snape killed him. ...” Page | 681 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “Don’ say that,” said Hagrid roughly. “Snape kill 
Dumbledore — don’ be stupid, Harry. Wha’s made 
yeh say tha’?” “I saw it happen.” “Yeh couldn’ have.” “I saw it, Hagrid.” Hagrid shook his head; his expression was 
disbelieving but sympathetic, and Harry knew that 
Hagrid thought he had sustained a blow to the head, 
that he was confused, perhaps by the aftereffects of a 
jinx. ... “What musta happened was, Dumbledore musta told 
Snape ter go with them Death Eaters,” Hagrid said 
confidently. “I suppose he’s gotta keep his cover. Look, let’s get yeh back up ter the school. Come on, 
Harry. ...” Harry did not attempt to argue or explain. He was still 
shaking uncontrollably. Hagrid would find out soon 
enough, too soon. ... As they directed their steps back 
toward the castle, Harry saw that many of its 
windows were lit now. He could imagine, clearly, the 
scenes inside as people moved from room to room, 
telling each other that Death Eaters had got in, that 
the Mark was shining over Hogwarts, that somebody 
must have been killed. ... The oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light 
flooding out onto the drive and the lawn. Slowly, 
uncertainly, dressing-gowned people were creeping 
down the steps, looking around nervously for some 
sign of the Death Eaters who had fled into the night. 
Harry’s eyes, however, were fixed upon the ground at 
the foot of the tallest tower. He imagined that he 
Page | 682 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling could see a black, huddled mass lying in the grass 
there, though he was really too far away to see 
anything of the sort. Even as he stared wordlessly at 
the place where he thought Dumbledore ’s body must 
lie, however, he saw people beginning to move toward 
it. “What’re they all lookin’ at?” said Hagrid, as he and 
Harry approached the castle front, Fang keeping as 
close as he could to their ankles. “Wha’s tha’, lyin’ on 
the grass?” Hagrid added sharply, heading now 
toward the foot of the Astronomy Tower, where a 
small crowd was congregating. “See it, Harry? Righ’ at 
the foot o’ the tower? Under where the Mark ... Blimey 
... yeh don’ think someone got thrown — ?” Hagrid fell silent, the thought apparently too horrible 
to express aloud. Harry walked alongside him, feeling 
the aches and pains in his face and his legs where the 
various hexes of the last half hour had hit him, 
though in an oddly detached way, as though 
somebody near him was suffering them. What was 
real and inescapable was the awful pressing feeling in 
his chest. ... He and Hagrid moved, dreamlike, through the 
murmuring crowd to the very front, where the 
dumbstruck students and teachers had left a gap. Harry heard Hagrid ’s moan of pain and shock, but he 
did not stop; he walked slowly forward until he 
reached the place where Dumbledore lay and 
crouched down beside him. He had known there was 
no hope from the moment that the full Body-Bind 
Curse Dumbledore had placed upon him lifted, 
known that it could have happened only because its 
caster was dead, but there was still no preparation for 
seeing him here, spread-eagled, broken: the greatest 
wizard Harry had ever, or would ever, meet. Page | 683 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Dumbledore’s eyes were closed; but for the strange 
angle of his arms and legs, he might have been 
sleeping. Harry reached out, straightened the half- 
moon spectacles upon the crooked nose, and wiped a 
trickle of blood from the mouth with his own sleeve. 
Then he gazed down at the wise old face and tried to 
absorb the enormous and incomprehensible truth: 
that never again would Dumbledore speak to him, 
never again could he help. ... The crowd murmured behind Harry. After what 
seemed like a long time, he became aware that he was 
kneeling upon something hard and looked down. The locket they had managed to steal so many hours 
before had fallen out of Dumbledore’s pocket. It had 
opened, perhaps due to the force with which it hit the 
ground. And although he could not feel more shock or 
horror or sadness than he felt already, Harry knew, 
as he picked it up, that there was something wrong. He turned the locket over in his hands. This was 
neither as large as the locket he remembered seeing 
in the Pensieve, nor were there any markings upon it, 
no sign of the ornate S that was supposed to be 
Slytherin’s mark. Moreover, there was nothing inside 
but for a scrap of folded parchment wedged tightly 
into the place where a portrait should have been. Automatically, without really thinking about what he 
was doing, Harry pulled out the fragment of 
parchment, opened it, and read by the light of the 
many wands that had now been lit behind him: To the Dark Lord I know I will be dead long before you read this Page | 684 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling but I want you to know that it was I who discovered 
your secret I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it 
as soon as I can. I face death in the hope that when you meet your 
match, you will be mortal once more. R.A.B. Harry neither knew nor cared what the message 
meant. Only one thing mattered: This was not a 
Horcrux. Dumbledore had weakened himself by 
drinking that terrible potion for nothing. Harry 
crumpled the parchment in his hand, and his eyes 
burned with tears as behind him Fang began to howl. Page | 685 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling z? THE PHOENIX LAMENT “C’mere, Harry ...” “No.” “Yeh can’ stay here, Harry. ... Come on, now. ...” “No.” He did not want to leave Dumbledore’s side, he did 
not want to move anywhere. Hagrid’s hand on his 
shoulder was trembling. Then another voice said, 
“Harry, come on.” A much smaller and warmer hand had enclosed his 
and was pulling him upward. He obeyed its pressure 
without really thinking about it. Only as he walked 
blindly back through the crowd did he realize, from a 
trace of flowery scent on the air, that it was Ginny 
who was leading him back into the castle. 
Incomprehensible voices battered him, sobs and 
shouts and wails stabbed the night, but Harry and 
Ginny walked on, back up the steps into the entrance 
Page | 686 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling hall. Faces swam on the edges of Harry’s vision, 
people were peering at him, whispering, wondering, 
and Gryffindor rubies glistened on the floor like drops 
of blood as they made their way toward the marble 
staircase. “We’re going to the hospital wing,” said Ginny. “I’m not hurt,” said Harry. “It’s McGonagall’s orders,” said Ginny. “Everyone’s up 
there, Ron and Hermione and Lupin and everyone — ” Fear stirred in Harry’s chest again: He had forgotten 
the inert figures he had left behind. “Ginny, who else is dead?” “Don’t worry, none of us.” “But the Dark Mark — Malfoy said he stepped over a 
body — ” “He stepped over Bill, but it’s all right, he’s alive.” There was something in her voice, however, that 
Harry knew boded ill. “Are you sure?” “Of course I’m sure ... he’s a — a bit of a mess, that’s 
all. Greyback attacked him. Madam Pomfrey says he 
won’t — won’t look the same anymore. ...” Ginny ’s voice trembled a little. “We don’t really know what the aftereffects will be — I 
mean, Greyback being a werewolf, but not 
transformed at the time.” Page | 687 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “But the others . . . There were other bodies on the 
ground. ...” “Neville and Professor Flitwick are both hurt, but 
Madam Pomfrey says they’ll be all right. And a Death 
Eater’s dead, he got hit by a Killing Curse that huge 
blond one was firing off everywhere — Harry, if we 
hadn’t had your Felix potion, I think we’d all have 
been killed, but everything seemed to just miss us — ” They had reached the hospital wing. Pushing open 
the doors, Harry saw Neville lying, apparently asleep, 
in a bed near the door. Ron, Hermione, Luna, Tonks, 
and Lupin were gathered around another bed near 
the far end of the ward. At the sound of the doors 
opening, they all looked up. Hermione ran to Harry 
and hugged him; Lupin moved forward too, looking 
anxious. “Are you all right, Harry?” “I’m fine. ... How’s Bill?” Nobody answered. Harry looked over Hermione’s 
shoulder and saw an unrecognizable face lying on 
Bill’s pillow, so badly slashed and ripped that he 
looked grotesque. Madam Pomfrey was dabbing at his 
wounds with some harsh-smelling green ointment. 
Harry remembered how Snape had mended Malfoy’s 
Sectumsempra wounds so easily with his wand. “Can’t you fix them with a charm or something?” he 
asked the matron. “No charm will work on these,” said Madam Pomfrey. 
“I’ve tried everything I know, but there is no cure for 
werewolf bites.” Page | 688 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “But he wasn’t bitten at the full moon,” said Ron, who 
was gazing down into his brother’s face as though he 
could somehow force him to mend just by staring. 
“Greyback hadn’t transformed, so surely Bill won’t be 
a — a real — ?” He looked uncertainly at Lupin. “No, I don’t think that Bill will be a true werewolf,” 
said Lupin, “but that does not mean that there won’t 
be some contamination. Those are cursed wounds. 
They are unlikely ever to heal fully, and — and Bill 
might have some wolfish characteristics from now 
on.” “Dumbledore might know something that’d work, 
though,” Ron said. “Where is he? Bill fought those 
maniacs on Dumbledore’s orders, Dumbledore owes 
him, he can’t leave him in this state — ” “Ron — Dumbledore’s dead,” said Ginny. “No!” Lupin looked wildly from Ginny to Harry, as 
though hoping the latter might contradict her, but 
when Harry did not, Lupin collapsed into a chair 
beside Bill’s bed, his hands over his face. Harry had 
never seen Lupin lose control before; he felt as though 
he was intruding upon something private, indecent. He turned away and caught Ron’s eye instead, 
exchanging in silence a look that confirmed what 
Ginny had said. “How did he die?” whispered Tonks. “How did it 
happen?” “Snape killed him,” said Harry. “I was there, I saw it. 
We arrived back on the Astronomy Tower because 
that’s where the Mark was. ... Dumbledore was ill, he 
was weak, but I think he realized it was a trap when Page | 689 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling we heard footsteps running up the stairs. He 
immobilized me, I couldn’t do anything, I was under 
the Invisibility Cloak — and then Malfoy came 
through the door and disarmed him — ” Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth and Ron 
groaned. Luna’s mouth trembled. “ — more Death Eaters arrived — and then Snape — 
and Snape did it. The Avada Kedavra.” Harry couldn’t 
go on. Madam Pomfrey burst into tears. Nobody paid her 
any attention except Ginny, who whispered, “Shh! 
Listen!” Gulping, Madam Pomfrey pressed her fingers to her 
mouth, her eyes wide. Somewhere out in the 
darkness, a phoenix was singing in a way Harry had 
never heard before: a stricken lament of terrible 
beauty. And Harry felt, as he had felt about phoenix 
song before, that the music was inside him, not 
without: It was his own grief turned magically to song 
that echoed across the grounds and through the 
castle windows. How long they all stood there, listening, he did not 
know, nor why it seemed to ease their pain a little to 
listen to the sound of their mourning, but it felt like a 
long time later that the hospital door opened again 
and Professor McGonagall entered the ward. Like all 
the rest, she bore marks of the recent battle: There 
were grazes on her face and her robes were ripped. “Molly and Arthur are on their way,” she said, and the 
spell of the music was broken: Everyone roused 
themselves as though coming out of trances, turning 
again to look at Bill, or else to rub their own eyes, 
shake their heads. “Harry, what happened? According 
Page | 690 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling to Hagrid you were with Professor Dumbledore when 
he — when it happened. He says Professor Snape was 
involved in some — ” “Snape killed Dumbledore,” said Harry. She stared at him for a moment, then swayed 
alarmingly; Madam Pomfrey, who seemed to have 
pulled herself together, ran forward, conjuring a chair 
from thin air, which she pushed under McGonagall. “Snape,” repeated McGonagall faintly, falling into the 
chair. “We all wondered ... but he trusted ... always ... 
Snape ... I can’t believe it. ...” “Snape was a highly accomplished Occlumens,” said 
Lupin, his voice uncharacteristically harsh. “We 
always knew that.” “But Dumbledore swore he was on our side!” 
whispered Tonks. “I always thought Dumbledore 
must know something about Snape that we didn’t. ...” “He always hinted that he had an ironclad reason for 
trusting Snape,” muttered Professor McGonagall, now 
dabbing at the corners of her leaking eyes with a 
tartan- edged handkerchief. “I mean ... with Snape ’s 
history ... of course people were bound to wonder . . . 
but Dumbledore told me explicitly that Snape ’s 
repentance was absolutely genuine. ... Wouldn’t hear 
a word against him!” “I’d love to know what Snape told him to convince 
him,” said Tonks. “I know,” said Harry, and they all turned to look at 
him. “Snape passed Voldemort the information that 
made Voldemort hunt down my mum and dad. Then 
Snape told Dumbledore he hadn’t realized what he Page | 691 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling was doing, he was really sorry he’d done it, sorry that 
they were dead.” They all stared at him. “And Dumbledore believed that?” said Lupin 
incredulously. “Dumbledore believed Snape was sorry 
James was dead? Snape hated James. ...” “And he didn’t think my mother was worth a damn 
either,” said Harry, “because she was Muggle-born. ... 
‘Mudblood,’ he called her. ...” Nobody asked how Harry knew this. All of them 
seemed to be lost in horrified shock, trying to digest 
the monstrous truth of what had happened. “This is all my fault,” said Professor McGonagall 
suddenly. She looked disoriented, twisting her wet 
handkerchief in her hands. “My fault. I sent Filius to 
fetch Snape tonight, I actually sent for him to come 
and help us! If I hadn’t alerted Snape to what was 
going on, he might never have joined forces with the 
Death Eaters. I don’t think he knew they were there 
before Filius told him, I don’t think he knew they were 
coming.” “It isn’t your fault, Minerva,” said Lupin firmly. “We 
all wanted more help, we were glad to think Snape 
was on his way. ...” “So when he arrived at the fight, he joined in on the 
Death Eaters’ side?” asked Harry, who wanted every 
detail of Snape ’s duplicity and infamy, feverishly 
collecting more reasons to hate him, to swear 
vengeance. “I don’t know exactly how it happened,” said Professor 
McGonagall distractedly. “It’s all so confusing. ... Page | 692 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Dumbledore had told us that he would be leaving the 
school for a few hours and that we were to patrol the 
corridors just in case ... Remus, Bill, and 
Nymphadora were to join us ... and so we patrolled. All seemed quiet. Every secret passageway out of the 
school was covered. We knew nobody could fly in. 
There were powerful enchantments on every entrance 
into the castle. I still don’t know how the Death 
Eaters can possibly have entered. ...” “I do,” said Harry, and he explained, briefly, about the 
pair of Vanishing Cabinets and the magical pathway 
they formed. “So they got in through the Room of 
Requirement.” Almost against his will he glanced from Ron to 
Hermione, both of whom looked devastated. “I messed up, Harry,” said Ron bleakly. “We did like 
you told us: We checked the Marauder’s Map and we 
couldn’t see Malfoy on it, so we thought he must be in 
the Room of Requirement, so me, Ginny, and Neville 
went to keep watch on it ... but Malfoy got past us.” “He came out of the room about an hour after we 
started keeping watch,” said Ginny. “He was on his 
own, clutching that awful shriveled arm — ” “His Hand of Glory,” said Ron. “Gives light only to the 
holder, remember?” “Anyway,” Ginny went on, “he must have been 
checking whether the coast was clear to let the Death 
Eaters out, because the moment he saw us he threw 
something into the air and it all went pitch-black — ” “ — Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder,” said Ron 
bitterly. “Fred and George’s. I’m going to be having a Page | 693 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling word with them about who they let buy their 
products.” “We tried everything, Lumos, Incendio,” said Ginny. 
“Nothing would penetrate the darkness; all we could 
do was grope our way out of the corridor again, and 
meanwhile we could hear people rushing past us. 
Obviously Malfoy could see because of that hand 
thing and was guiding them, but we didn’t dare use 
any curses or anything in case we hit each other, and 
by the time we’d reached a corridor that was light, 
they’d gone.” “Luckily,” said Lupin hoarsely, “Ron, Ginny, and 
Neville ran into us almost immediately and told us 
what had happened. We found the Death Eaters 
minutes later, heading in the direction of the 
Astronomy Tower. Malfoy obviously hadn’t expected 
more people to be on the watch; he seemed to have 
exhausted his supply of Darkness Powder, at any 
rate. A fight broke out, they scattered and we gave 
chase. One of them, Gibbon, broke away and headed 
up the tower stairs — ” “To set off the Mark?” asked Harry. “He must have done, yes, they must have arranged 
that before they left the Room of Requirement,” said 
Lupin. “But I don’t think Gibbon liked the idea of 
waiting up there alone for Dumbledore, because he 
came running back downstairs to rejoin the fight and 
was hit by a Killing Curse that just missed me.” “So if Ron was watching the Room of Requirement 
with Ginny and Neville,” said Harry, turning to 
Hermione, “were you — ?” “Outside Snape’s office, yes,” whispered Hermione, 
her eyes sparkling with tears, “with Luna. We hung Page | 694 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling around for ages outside it and nothing happened. ... 
We didn’t know what was going on upstairs, Ron had 
taken the map. ... It was nearly midnight when 
Professor Flitwick came sprinting down into the 
dungeons. He was shouting about Death Eaters in 
the castle, I don’t think he really registered that Luna 
and I were there at all, he just burst his way into 
Snape’s office and we heard him saying that Snape 
had to go back with him and help and then we heard 
a loud thump and Snape came hurtling out of his 
room and he saw us and — and — ” “What?” Harry urged her. “I was so stupid, Harry!” said Hermione in a high- 
pitched whisper. “He said Professor Flitwick had 
collapsed and that we should go and take care of him 
while he — while he went to help fight the Death 
Eaters — ” She covered her face in shame and 
continued to talk into her fingers, so that her voice 
was muffled. “We went into his office to see if we 
could help Professor Flitwick and found him 
unconscious on the floor ... and oh, it’s so obvious 
now, Snape must have Stupefied Flitwick, but we 
didn’t realize, Harry, we didn’t realize, we just let 
Snape go!” “It’s not your fault,” said Lupin firmly. “Hermione, 
had you not obeyed Snape and got out of the way, he 
probably would have killed you and Luna.” “So then he came upstairs,” said Harry, who was 
watching Snape running up the marble staircase in 
his mind’s eye, his black robes billowing behind him 
as ever, pulling his wand from under his cloak as he 
ascended, “and he found the place where you were all 
fighting. ...” Page | 695 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “We were in trouble, we were losing,” said Tonks in a 
low voice. “Gibbon was down, but the rest of the 
Death Eaters seemed ready to fight to the death. 
Neville had been hurt, Bill had been savaged by 
Greyback ... It was all dark . . . curses flying 
everywhere ... The Malfoy boy had vanished, he must 
have slipped past, up the stairs ... then more of them 
ran after him, but one of them blocked the stair 
behind them with some kind of curse. ... Neville ran 
at it and got thrown up into the air — ” “None of us could break through,” said Ron, “and that 
massive Death Eater was still firing off jinxes all over 
the place, they were bouncing off the walls and barely 
missing us. ...” “And then Snape was there,” said Tonks, “and then 
he wasn’t — ” “I saw him running toward us, but that huge Death 
Eater’s jinx just missed me right afterward and I 
ducked and lost track of things,” said Ginny. “I saw him run straight through the cursed barrier as 
though it wasn’t there,” said Lupin. “I tried to follow 
him, but was thrown back just like Neville. ...” “He must have known a spell we didn’t,” whispered 
McGonagall. “After all — he was the Defense Against 
the Dark Arts teacher. ... I just assumed that he was 
in a hurry to chase after the Death Eaters who’d 
escaped up to the tower. ...” “He was,” said Harry savagely, “but to help them, not 
to stop them ... and I’ll bet you had to have a Dark 
Mark to get through that barrier — so what happened 
when he came back down?” Page | 696 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “Well, the big Death Eater had just fired off a hex that 
caused half the ceiling to fall in, and also broke the 
curse blocking the stairs,” said Lupin. “We all ran 
forward — those of us who were still standing anyway 
— and then Snape and the boy emerged out of the 
dust — obviously, none of us attacked them — ” “We just let them pass,” said Tonks in a hollow voice. 
“We thought they were being chased by the Death 
Eaters — and next thing, the other Death Eaters and 
Greyback were back and we were fighting again — I 
thought I heard Snape shout something, but I don’t 
know what — ” “He shouted, ‘It’s over,’ ” said Harry. “He’d done what 
he’d meant to do.” They all fell silent. Fawkes’s lament was still echoing 
over the dark grounds outside. As the music 
reverberated upon the air, unbidden, unwelcome 
thoughts slunk into Harry’s mind. ... Had they taken 
Dumbledore’s body from the foot of the tower yet? 
What would happen to it next? Where would it rest? 
He clenched his fists tightly in his pockets. He could 
feel the small cold lump of the fake Horcrux against 
the knuckles of his right hand. The doors of the hospital wing burst open, making 
them all jump: Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were striding up 
the ward, Fleur just behind them, her beautiful face 
terrified. “Molly — Arthur — ” said Professor McGonagall, 
jumping up and hurrying to greet them. “I am so 
sorry — ” “Bill,” whispered Mrs. Weasley, darting past Professor 
McGonagall as she caught sight of Bill’s mangled face. 
“Oh, Bill'.” Page | 697 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Lupin and Tonks had got up hastily and retreated so 
that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley could get nearer to the 
bed. Mrs. Weasley bent over her son and pressed her 
lips to his bloody forehead. “You said Greyback attacked him?” Mr. Weasley 
asked Professor McGonagall distractedly. “But he 
hadn’t transformed? So what does that mean? What 
will happen to Bill?” “We don’t yet know,” said Professor McGonagall, 
looking helplessly at Lupin. “There will probably be some contamination, Arthur,” 
said Lupin. “It is an odd case, possibly unique. ... We 
don’t know what his behavior might be like when he 
awakens. ...” Mrs. Weasley took the nasty-smelling ointment from 
Madam Pomfrey and began dabbing at Bill’s wounds. “And Dumbledore ...” said Mr. Weasley. “Minerva, is it 
true ... Is he really ... ?” As Professor McGonagall nodded, Harry felt Ginny 
move beside him and looked at her. Her slightly 
narrowed eyes were fixed upon Fleur, who was gazing 
down at Bill with a frozen expression on her face. “Dumbledore gone,” whispered Mr. Weasley, but Mrs. 
Weasley had eyes only for her eldest son; she began 
to sob, tears falling onto Bill’s mutilated face. “Of course, it doesn’t matter how he looks. ... It’s not 
r-really important . . . but he was a very handsome 
little b-boy . . . always very handsome . . . and he was g- 
going to be married!” Page | 698 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “And what do you mean by zat?” said Fleur suddenly 
and loudly. “What do you mean, ‘’e was going to be 
married?’ ” Mrs. Weasley raised her tear-stained face, looking 
startled. “Well — only that — ” “You theenk Bill will not wish to marry me anymore?” 
demanded Fleur. “You theenk, because of these bites, 
he will not love me?” “No, that’s not what I — ” “Because ’e will!” said Fleur, drawing herself up to her 
full height and throwing back her long mane of silver 
hair. “It would take more zan a werewolf to stop Bill 
loving me!” “Well, yes, I’m sure,” said Mrs. Weasley, “but I 
thought perhaps — given how — how he — ” “You thought I would not weesh to marry him? Or 
per’aps, you hoped?” said Fleur, her nostrils flaring. 
“What do I care how he looks? I am good-looking 
enough for both of us, I theenk! All these scars show 
is zat my husband is brave! And I shall do zat!” she 
added fiercely, pushing Mrs. Weasley aside and 
snatching the ointment from her. Mrs. Weasley fell back against her husband and 
watched Fleur mopping up Bill’s wounds with a most 
curious expression upon her face. Nobody said 
anything; Harry did not dare move. Like everybody 
else, he was waiting for the explosion. “Our Great-Auntie Muriel,” said Mrs. Weasley after a 
long pause, “has a very beautiful tiara — goblin-made 
— which I am sure I could persuade her to lend you Page | 699 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling for the wedding. She is very fond of Bill, you know, 
and it would look lovely with your hair.” “Thank you,” said Fleur stiffly. “I am sure zat will be 
lovely.” And then, Harry did not quite see how it happened, 
both women were crying and hugging each other. 
Completely bewildered, wondering whether the world 
had gone mad, he turned around: Ron looked as 
stunned as he felt and Ginny and Hermione were 
exchanging startled looks. “You see!” said a strained voice. Tonks was glaring at 
Lupin. “She still wants to marry him, even though 
he’s been bitten! She doesn’t care!” “It’s different,” said Lupin, barely moving his lips and 
looking suddenly tense. “Bill will not be a full 
werewolf. The cases are completely — ” “But I don’t care either, I don’t care!” said Tonks, 
seizing the front of Lupin’s robes and shaking them. 
“I’ve told you a million times. ...” And the meaning of Tonks’s Patronus and her mouse- 
colored hair, and the reason she had come running to 
find Dumbledore when she had heard a rumor 
someone had been attacked by Greyback, all 
suddenly became clear to Harry; it had not been 
Sirius that Tonks had fallen in love with after all. “And I’ve told you a million times,” said Lupin, 
refusing to meet her eyes, staring at the floor, “that I 
am too old for you, too poor ... too dangerous. ...” “I’ve said all along you’re taking a ridiculous line on 
this, Remus,” said Mrs. Weasley over Fleur’s shoulder 
as she patted her on the back. Page | 700 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “I am not being ridiculous,” said Lupin steadily. 
“Tonks deserves somebody young and whole.” “But she wants you,” said Mr. Weasley, with a small 
smile. “And after all, Remus, young and whole men do 
not necessarily remain so.” He gestured sadly at his son, lying between them. “This is ... not the moment to discuss it,” said Lupin, 
avoiding everybody’s eyes as he looked around 
distractedly. “Dumbledore is dead. ...” “Dumbledore would have been happier than anybody 
to think that there was a little more love in the world,” 
said Professor McGonagall curtly, just as the hospital 
doors opened again and Hagrid walked in. The little of his face that was not obscured by hair or 
beard was soaking and swollen; he was shaking with 
tears, a vast, spotted handkerchief in his hand. “I’ve ... I’ve done it, Professor,” he choked. “M-moved 
him. Professor Sprout’s got the kids back in bed. 
Professor Flitwick’s lyin’ down, but he says he’ll be all 
righ’ in a jiffy, an’ Professor Slughorn says the 
Ministry’s bin informed.” “Thank you, Hagrid,” said Professor McGonagall, 
standing up at once and turning to look at the group 
around Bill’s bed. “I shall have to see the Ministry 
when they get here. Hagrid, please tell the Heads of 
Houses — Slughorn can represent Slytherin — that I 
want to see them in my office forthwith. I would like 
you to join us too.” As Hagrid nodded, turned, and shuffled out of the 
room again, she looked down at Harry. “Before I meet Page | 701 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling them I would like a quick word with you, Harry. If 
you’ll come with me. ...” Harry stood up, murmured “See you in a bit” to Ron, 
Hermione, and Ginny, and followed Professor 
McGonagall back down the ward. The corridors 
outside were deserted and the only sound was the 
distant phoenix song. It was several minutes before 
Harry became aware that they were not heading for 
Professor McGonagall’s office, but for Dumbledore’s, 
and another few seconds before he realized that of 
course, she had been deputy headmistress. ... 
Apparently she was now headmistress ... so the room 
behind the gargoyle was now hers. In silence they ascended the moving spiral staircase 
and entered the circular office. He did not know what 
he had expected: that the room would be draped in 
black, perhaps, or even that Dumbledore’s body 
might be lying there. In fact, it looked almost exactly 
as it had done when he and Dumbledore had left it 
mere hours previously: the silver instruments 
whirring and puffing on their spindle-legged tables, 
Gryffindor’s sword in its glass case gleaming in the 
moonlight, the Sorting Hat on a shelf behind the 
desk. But Fawkes’s perch stood empty, he was still 
crying his lament to the grounds. And a new portrait 
had joined the ranks of the dead headmasters and 
headmistresses of Hogwarts: Dumbledore was 
slumbering in a golden frame over the desk, his half- 
moon spectacles perched upon his crooked nose, 
looking peaceful and untroubled. After glancing once at this portrait, Professor 
McGonagall made an odd movement as though 
steeling herself, then rounded the desk to look at 
Harry, her face taut and lined. Page | 702 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “Harry,” she said, “I would like to know what you and 
Professor Dumbledore were doing this evening when 
you left the school.” “I can’t tell you that, Professor,” said Harry. He had 
expected the question and had his answer ready. It 
had been here, in this very room, that Dumbledore 
had told him that he was to confide the contents of 
their lessons to nobody but Ron and Hermione. “Harry, it might be important,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “It is,” said Harry, “very, but he didn’t want me to tell 
anyone.” Professor McGonagall glared at him. “Potter” — Harry 
registered the renewed use of his surname — “in the 
light of Professor Dumbledore’s death, I think you 
must see that the situation has changed somewhat — “I don’t think so,” said Harry, shrugging. “Professor 
Dumbledore never told me to stop following his orders 
if he died.” “But — ” “There’s one thing you should know before the 
Ministry gets here, though. Madam Rosmerta’s under 
the Imperius Curse, she was helping Malfoy and the 
Death Eaters, that’s how the necklace and the 
poisoned mead — ” “Rosmerta?” said Professor McGonagall incredulously, 
but before she could go on, there was a knock on the 
door behind them and Professors Sprout, Flitwick, 
and Slughorn traipsed into the room, followed by Page | 703 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Hagrid, who was still weeping copiously, his huge 
frame trembling with grief. “Snape!” ejaculated Slughorn, who looked the most 
shaken, pale and sweating. “Snape! I taught him! I 
thought I knew him!” But before any of them could respond to this, a sharp 
voice spoke from high on the wall: A sallow-faced 
wizard with a short black fringe had just walked back 
into his empty canvas. “Minerva, the Minister will be here within seconds, he 
has just Disapparated from the Ministry.” “Thank you, Everard,” said Professor McGonagall, 
and she turned quickly to her teachers. “I want to talk about what happens to Hogwarts 
before he gets here,” she said quickly. “Personally, I 
am not convinced that the school should reopen next 
year. The death of the headmaster at the hands of one 
of our colleagues is a terrible stain upon Hogwarts ’s 
history. It is horrible.” “I am sure Dumbledore would have wanted the school 
to remain open,” said Professor Sprout. “I feel that if a 
single pupil wants to come, then the school ought to 
remain open for that pupil.” “But will we have a single pupil after this?” said 
Slughorn, now dabbing his sweating brow with a 
silken handkerchief. “Parents will want to keep their 
children at home and I can’t say I blame them. 
Personally, I don’t think we’re in more danger at 
Hogwarts than we are anywhere else, but you can’t 
expect mothers to think like that. They’ll want to keep 
their families together, it’s only natural.” Page | 704 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “I agree,” said Professor McGonagall. “And in any 
case, it is not true to say that Dumbledore never 
envisaged a situation in which Hogwarts might close. 
When the Chamber of Secrets reopened he considered 
the closure of the school — and I must say that 
Professor Dumbledore’s murder is more disturbing to 
me than the idea of Slytherin’s monster living 
undetected in the bowels of the castle. ...” “We must consult the governors,” said Professor 
Flitwick in his squeaky little voice; he had a large 
bruise on his forehead but seemed otherwise 
unscathed by his collapse in Snape’s office. “We must 
follow the established procedures. A decision should 
not be made hastily.” “Hagrid, you haven’t said anything,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “What are your views, ought Hogwarts to 
remain open?” Hagrid, who had been weeping silently into his large, 
spotted handkerchief throughout this conversation, 
now raised puffy red eyes and croaked, “I dunno, 
Professor ... that’s fer the Heads of House an’ the 
headmistress ter decide ...” “Professor Dumbledore always valued your views,” 
said Professor McGonagall kindly, “and so do I.” “Well, I’m stayin’,” said Hagrid, fat tears still leaking 
out of the corners of his eyes and trickling down into 
his tangled beard. “It’s me home, it’s bin me home 
since I was thirteen. An’ if there’s kids who wan’ me 
ter teach ’em, I’ll do it. But ... I dunno ... Hogwarts 
without Dumbledore ...” He gulped and disappeared 
behind his handkerchief once more, and there was 
silence. Page | 705 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling “Very well,” said Professor McGonagall, glancing out 
of the window at the grounds, checking to see 
whether the Minister was yet approaching, “then I 
must agree with Filius that the right thing to do is to 
consult the governors, who will make the final 
decision. “Now, as to getting students home ... there is an 
argument for doing it sooner rather than later. We 
could arrange for the Hogwarts Express to come 
tomorrow if necessary — ” “What about Dumbledore’s funeral?” said Harry, 
speaking at last. “Well ...” said Professor McGonagall, losing a little of 
her briskness as her voice shook. “I — I know that it 
was Dumbledore’s wish to be laid to rest here, at 
Hogwarts — ” “Then that’s what’ll happen, isn’t it?” said Harry 
fiercely. “If the Ministry thinks it appropriate,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “No other headmaster or headmistress 
has ever been — ” “No other headmaster or headmistress ever gave more 
to this school,” growled Hagrid. “Hogwarts should be Dumbledore’s final resting 
place,” said Professor Flitwick. “Absolutely,” said Professor Sprout. “And in that case,” said Harry, “you shouldn’t send 
the students home until the funeral’s over. They’ll 
want to say — ” Page | 706 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling The last word caught in his throat, but Professor 
Sprout completed the sentence for him. “Good-bye.” “Well said,” squeaked Professor Flitwick. “Well said 
indeed! Our students should pay tribute, it is fitting. 
We can arrange transport home afterward.” “Seconded,” barked Professor Sprout. “I suppose ... yes ...” said Slughorn in a rather 
agitated voice, while Hagrid let out a strangled sob of 
assent. “He’s coming,” said Professor McGonagall suddenly, 
gazing down into the grounds. “The Minister ... and 
by the looks of it, he’s brought a delegation ...” “Can I leave, Professor?” said Harry at once. He had no desire at all to see, or be interrogated by, 
Rufus Scrimgeour tonight. “You may,” said Professor McGonagall. “And quickly.” She strode toward the door and held it open for him. 
He sped down the spiral staircase and off along the 
deserted corridor; he had left his Invisibility Cloak at 
the top of the Astronomy Tower, but it did not matter; 
there was nobody in the corridors to see him pass, 
not even Filch, Mrs. Norris, or Peeves. He did not 
meet another soul until he turned into the passage 
leading to the Gryffindor common room. “Is it true?” whispered the Fat Lady as he approached 
her. “It is really true? Dumbledore — dead?” “Yes,” said Harry. Page | 707 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling She let out a wail and, without waiting for the 
password, swung forward to admit him. As Harry had suspected it would be, the common 
room was jam-packed. The room fell silent as he 
climbed through the portrait hole. He saw Dean and 
Seamus sitting in a group nearby: This meant that 
the dormitory must be empty, or nearly so. Without 
speaking to anybody, without making eye contact at 
all, Harry walked straight across the room and 
through the door to the boys’ dormitories. As he had hoped, Ron was waiting for him, still fully 
dressed, sitting on his bed. Harry sat down on his 
own four-poster and for a moment, they simply stared 
at each other. “They’re talking about closing the school,” said Harry. 
“Lupin said they would,” said Ron. There was a pause. “So?” said Ron in a very low voice, as though he 
thought the furniture might be listening in. “Did you 
find one? Did you get it? A — a Horcrux?” Harry shook his head. All that had taken place 
around that black lake seemed like an old nightmare 
now; had it really happened, and only hours ago? “You didn’t get it?” said Ron, looking crestfallen. “It 
wasn’t there?” “No,” said Harry. “Someone had already taken it and 
left a fake in its place.” “Already taken — ?” Page | 708 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling Wordlessly, Harry pulled the fake locket from his 
pocket, opened it, and passed it to Ron. The full story 
could wait. ... It did not matter tonight ... nothing 
mattered except the end, the end of their pointless 
adventure, the end of Dumbledore’s life. ... “R.A.B.,” whispered Ron, “but who was that?” “Dunno,” said Harry, lying back on his bed fully 
clothed and staring blankly upwards. He felt no 
curiosity at all about R.A.B.: He doubted that he 
would ever feel curious again. As he lay there, he 
became aware suddenly that the grounds were silent. 
Fawkes had stopped singing. And he knew, without knowing how he knew it, that 
the phoenix had gone, had left Hogwarts for good, just 
as Dumbledore had left the school, had left the world 
. . . had left Harry. Page | 709 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling 