LUNA LOVEGOOD Harry had a troubled night’s sleep. His parents wove 
in and out of his dreams, never speaking; Mrs. 
Weasley sobbed over Kreacher’s dead body watched 
by Ron and Hermione, who were wearing crowns, and 
yet again Harry found himself walking down a 
corridor ending in a locked door. He awoke abruptly 
with his scar prickling to find Ron already dressed 
and talking to him. "... better hurry up, Mum’s going ballistic, she says 
we’re going to miss the train...” There was a lot of commotion in the house. From 
what he heard as he dressed at top speed, Harry 
gathered that Fred and George had bewitched their 
trunks to fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying 
them, with the result that they had hurtled straight 
into Ginny and knocked her down two flights of stairs 
into the hall; Mrs. Black and Mrs. Weasley were both 
screaming at the top of their voices. Page | 230Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, 
YOU IDIOTS — ” FILTHY HALF-BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE 
HOUSE OF MY FATHERS — ” Hermione came hurrying into the room looking 
flustered just as Harry was putting on his trainers; 
Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder, and she was 
carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms. “Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig back” — the owl 
fluttered obligingly over and perched on top of her 
cage — “are you ready yet?” “Nearly — Ginny all right?” Harry asked, shoving on 
his glasses. “Mrs. Weasley’s patched her up,” said Hermione. “But 
now Mad-Eye’s complaining that we can’t leave unless 
Sturgis Podmore’s here, otherwise the guard will be 
one short.” “Guard?” said Harry. “We have to go to King’s Cross 
with a guard?” “ You have to go to King’s Cross with a guard,” 
Hermione corrected him. “Why?” said Harry irritably. “I thought Voldemort was 
supposed to be lying low, or are you telling me he’s 
going to jump out from behind a dustbin to try and do 
me in?” “I don’t know, it’s just what Mad-Eye says,” said 
Hermione distractedly, looking at her watch. “But if 
we don’t leave soon we’re definitely going to miss the 
train...” Page | 231Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!” 
Mrs. Weasley bellowed and Hermione jumped as 
though scalded and hurried out of the room. Harry 
seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her 
cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione, dragging 
his trunk. Mrs. Black’s portrait was howling with rage but 
nobody was bothering to close the curtains over her; 
all the noise in the hall was bound to rouse her again 
anyway. “Harry, you’re to come with me and Tonks,” shouted 
Mrs. Weasley over the repeated screeches of 
“MUDBLOODSl SCUM CREATURES OF DIRV.” “Leave 
your trunk and your owl, Alastor’s going to deal with 
the luggage... Oh, for heaven’s sake, Sirius, 
Dumbledore said no!” A bearlike black dog had appeared at Harry’s side as 
Harry clambered over the various trunks cluttering 
the hall to get to Mrs. Weasley. “Oh honestly ...” said Mrs. Weasley despairingly, 
“well, on your own head be it!” She wrenched open the front door and stepped out 
into the weak September sunlight. Harry and the dog 
followed her. The door slammed behind them and 
Mrs. Black’s screeches were cut off instantly. “Where’s Tonks?” Harry said, looking around as they 
went down the stone steps of number twelve, which 
vanished the moment they reached the pavement. “She’s waiting for us just up here,” said Mrs. Weasley 
stiffly, averting her eyes from the lolloping black dog 
beside Harry. Page | 232Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had 
tightly curled gray hair and wore a purple hat shaped 
like a porkpie. “Wotcher, Harry,” she said, winking. “Better hurry up, 
hadn’t we, Molly?” she added, checking her watch. “I know, I know,” moaned Mrs. Weasley, lengthening 
her stride, “but Mad-Eye wanted to wait for Sturgis... 
If only Arthur could have got us cars from the 
Ministry again ... but Fudge wouldn’t let him borrow 
so much as an empty ink bottle these days... How 
Muggles can stand traveling without magic ...” But the great black dog gave a joyful bark and 
gamboled around them, snapping at pigeons, and 
chasing its own tail. Harry couldn’t help laughing. 
Sirius had been trapped inside for a very long time. 
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an almost Aunt 
Petunia-ish way. It took them twenty minutes to reach King’s Cross by 
foot and nothing more eventful happened during that 
time than Sirius scaring a couple of cats for Harry’s 
entertainment. Once inside the station they lingered 
casually beside the barrier between platforms nine 
and ten until the coast was clear, then each of them 
leaned against it in turn and fell easily through onto 
platform nine and three quarters, where the Hogwarts 
Express stood belching sooty steam over a platform 
packed with departing students and their families. 
Harry inhaled the familiar smell and felt his spirits 
soar. . . He was really going back. . . “I hope the others make it in time,” said Mrs. Weasley 
anxiously, staring behind her at the wrought-iron 
arch spanning the platform, through which new 
arrivals would come. Page | 233Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Nice dog, Harry!” called a tall boy with dreadlocks. “Thanks, Lee,” said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged 
his tail frantically. “Oh good,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding relieved, 
“here’s Alas tor with the luggage, look ...” A porter’s cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, 
Moody came limping through the archway pushing a 
cart full of their trunks. “All okay,” he muttered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks. 
“Don’t think we were followed...” Seconds later, Mr. Weasley emerged onto the platform 
with Ron and Hermione. They had almost unloaded 
Moody’s luggage cart when Fred, George, and Ginny 
turned up with Lupin. “No trouble?” growled Moody. “Nothing,” said Lupin. “I’ll still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore,” said 
Moody. “That’s the second time he’s not turned up in 
a week. Getting as unreliable as Mundungus.” “Well, look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking 
hands all round. He reached Harry last and gave him 
a clap on the shoulder. “You too, Harry. Be careful.” “Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,” 
said Moody, shaking Harry’s hand too. “And don’t 
forget, all of you — careful what you put in writing. If 
in doubt, don’t put it in a letter at all.” Page | 234Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “It’s been great meeting all of you,” said Tonks, 
hugging Hermione and Ginny. “We’ll see you soon, I 
expect.” A warning whistle sounded; the students still on the 
platform started hurrying onto the train. “Quick, quick,” said Mrs. Weasley distractedly, 
hugging them at random and catching Harry twice. 
“Write... Be good... If you’ve forgotten anything we’ll 
send it on... Onto the train, now, hurry...” For one brief moment, the great black dog reared onto 
its hind legs and placed its front paws on Harry’s 
shoulders, but Mrs. Weasley shoved Harry away 
toward the train door hissing, “For heaven’s sake act 
more like a dog, Sirius!” “See you!” Harry called out of the open window as the 
train began to move, while Ron, Hermione, and Ginny 
waved beside him. The figures of Tonks, Lupin, Moody, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley shrank rapidly but 
the black dog was bounding alongside the window, 
wagging its tail; blurred people on the platform were 
laughing to see it chasing the train, and then they 
turned the corner, and Sirius was gone. “He shouldn’t have come with us,” said Hermione in a 
worried voice. “Oh lighten up,” said Ron, “he hasn’t seen daylight for 
months, poor bloke.” “Well,” said Fred, clapping his hands together, “can’t 
stand around chatting all day, we’ve got business to 
discuss with Lee. See you later,” and he and George 
disappeared down the corridor to the right. Page | 235Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling The train was gathering still more speed, so that the 
houses outside the window flashed past and they 
swayed where they stood. “Shall we go and find a compartment, then?” Harry 
asked Ron and Hermione. Ron and Hermione exchanged looks. “Er,” said Ron. “We’re — well — Ron and I are supposed to go into 
the prefect carriage,” Hermione said awkwardly. Ron wasn’t looking at Harry; he seemed to have 
become intensely interested in the fingernails on his 
left hand. “Oh,” said Harry. “Right. Fine.” “I don’t think we’ll have to stay there all journey,” said 
Hermione quickly. “Our letters said we just get 
instructions from the Head Boy and Girl and then 
patrol the corridors from time to time.” “Fine,” said Harry again. “Well, I-I might see you later, 
then.” “Yeah, definitely,” said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious 
look at Harry. “It’s a pain having to go down there, I’d 
rather — but we have to — I mean, I’m not enjoying 
it, I’m not Percy,” he finished defiantly. “I know you’re not,” said Harry and he grinned. But 
as Hermione and Ron dragged their trunks, 
Crookshanks, and a caged Pigwidgeon off toward the 
engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd sense of 
loss. He had never traveled on the Hogwarts Express 
without Ron. Page | 236Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Come on,” Ginny told him, “if we get a move on we’ll 
be able to save them places.” “Right,” said Harry, picking up Hedwig’s cage in one 
hand and the handle of his trunk in the other. They 
struggled off down the corridor, peering through the 
glass-paneled doors into the compartments they 
passed, which were already full. Harry could not help 
noticing that a lot of people stared back at him with 
great interest and that several of them nudged their 
neighbors and pointed him out. After he had met this 
behavior in five consecutive carriages he remembered 
that the Daily Prophet had been telling its readers all 
summer what a lying show-off he was. He wondered 
bleakly whether the people now staring and 
whispering believed the stories. In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, 
Harry’s fellow fifth-year Gryffindor, his round face 
shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and 
maintaining a one-handed grip on his struggling toad, 
Trevor. “Hi, Harry,” he panted. “Hi, Ginny... Everywhere ’s 
full... I can’t find a seat...” “What are you talking about?” said Ginny, who had 
squeezed past Neville to peer into the compartment 
behind him. “There’s room in this one, there’s only 
Loony Lovegood in here — ” Neville mumbled something about not wanting to 
disturb anyone. “Don’t be silly,” said Ginny, laughing, “she’s all right.” She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside it. 
Harry and Neville followed. Page | 237Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Hi, Luna,” said Ginny. “Is it okay if we take these 
seats?” The girl beside the window looked up. She had 
straggly, waist-length, dirty-blond hair, very pale 
eyebrows, and protuberant eyes that gave her a 
permanently surprised look. Harry knew at once why 
Neville had chosen to pass this compartment by. The 
girl gave off an aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it 
was the fact that she had stuck her wand behind her 
left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to 
wear a necklace of butterbeer caps, or that she was 
reading a magazine upside down. Her eyes ranged 
over Neville and came to rest on Harry. She nodded. “Thanks,” said Ginny, smiling at her. Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and 
Hedwig’s cage in the luggage rack and sat down. The 
girl called Luna watched them over her upside-down 
magazine, which was called The Quibbler. She did not 
seem to need to blink as much as normal humans. She stared and stared at Harry, who had taken the 
seat opposite her and now wished he had not. “Had a good summer, Luna?” Ginny asked. “Yes,” said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off 
Harry. “Yes, it was quite enjoyable, you know. You’re 
Harry Potter,” she added. “I know I am,” said Harry. Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes upon him 
instead. “And I don’t know who you are.” “I’m nobody,” said Neville hurriedly. Page | 238Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “No you’re not,” said Ginny sharply. “Neville 
Longbottom — Luna Lovegood. Luna’s in my year, but 
in Ravenclaw.” “ Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure,” said 
Luna in a singsong voice. She raised her upside-down magazine high enough to 
hide her face and fell silent. Harry and Neville looked 
at each other with their eyebrows raised. Ginny 
suppressed a giggle. The train rattled onward, speeding them out into 
open country. It was an odd, unsettled sort of day; 
one moment the carriage was full of sunlight and the 
next they were passing beneath ominously gray 
clouds. “Guess what I got for my birthday?” said Neville. “Another Remembrall?” said Harry, remembering the 
marblelike device Neville’s grandmother had sent him 
in an effort to improve his abysmal memory. “No,” said Neville, “I could do with one, though, I lost 
the old one ages ago... No, look at this...” He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on 
Trevor into his schoolbag and after a little bit of 
rummaging pulled out what appeared to be a small 
gray cactus in a pot, except that it was covered with 
what looked like boils rather than spines. “Mimbulus mimbletonia,” he said proudly. Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, 
giving it the rather sinister look of some diseased 
internal organ. Page | 239Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “It’s really, really rare,” said Neville, beaming. “I don’t 
know if there’s one in the greenhouse at Hogwarts, 
even. I can’t wait to show it to Professor Sprout. My 
great-uncle Algie got it for me in Assyria. I’m going to 
see if I can breed from it.” Harry knew that Neville’s favorite subject was 
Herbology, but for the life of him he could not see 
what he would want with this stunted little plant. “Does it — er — do anything?” he asked. “Loads of stuff!” said Neville proudly. “It’s got an 
amazing defensive mechanism — hold Trevor for 
me...” He dumped the toad into Harry’s lap and took a quill 
from his schoolbag. Luna Lovegood’s popping eyes 
appeared over the top of her upside-down magazine 
again, watching what Neville was doing. Neville held 
the Mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue 
between his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant 
a sharp prod with the tip of his quill. Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant, thick, 
stinking, dark-green jets of it; they hit the ceiling, the 
windows, and spattered Luna Lovegood’s magazine. 
Ginny, who had flung her arms up in front of her face 
just in time, merely looked as though she was 
wearing a slimy green hat, but Harry, whose hands 
had been busy preventing the escape of Trevor, 
received a face full. It smelled like rancid manure. Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, 
shook his head to get the worst out of his eyes. “S-sorry,” he gasped. “I haven’t tried that before... 
Didn’t realize it would be quite so ... Don’t worry, Page | 240Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling though, Stinksap’s not poisonous,” he added 
nervously, as Harry spat a mouthful onto the floor. At that precise moment the door of their compartment 
slid open. “Oh ... hello, Harry,” said a nervous voice. “Um ... bad 
time?” Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor- 
free hand. A very pretty girl with long, shiny black 
hair was standing in the doorway smiling at him: Cho 
Chang, the Seeker on the Ravenclaw Quidditch team. “Oh ... hi,” said Harry blankly. “Um ...” said Cho. “Well ... just thought I’d say hello 
... ’bye then.” She closed the door again, rather pink in the face, 
and departed. Harry slumped back in his seat and 
groaned. He would have liked Cho to discover him 
sitting with a group of very cool people laughing their 
heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not 
have chosen to be sitting with Neville and Loony 
Lovegood, clutching a toad and dripping in Stinksap. “Never mind,” said Ginny bracingly. “Look, we can get 
rid of all this easily.” She pulled out her wand. “ Scour gif yY’ The Stinksap vanished. “Sorry,” said Neville again, in a small voice. Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an 
hour, by which time the food trolley had already gone 
by. Harry, Ginny, and Neville had finished their 
Pumpkin Pasties and were busy swapping Chocolate Page | 241Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Frog cards when the compartment door slid open and 
they walked in, accompanied by Crookshanks and a 
shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon in his cage. “I’m starving,” said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to 
Hedwig, grabbing a Chocolate Frog from Harry and 
throwing himself into the seat next to him. He ripped 
open the wrapper, bit off the Frog’s head, and leaned 
back with his eyes closed as though he had had a 
very exhausting morning. “Well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each 
House,” said Hermione, looking thoroughly 
disgruntled as she took her seat. “Boy and girl from 
each.” “And guess who’s a Slytherin prefect?” said Ron, still 
with his eyes closed. “Malfoy,” replied Harry at once, his worst fear 
confirmed. “ ’Course,” said Ron bitterly, stuffing the rest of the 
Frog into his mouth and taking another. “And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson,” said 
Hermione viciously. “How she got to be a prefect when 
she’s thicker than a concussed troll ...” “Who’s Hufflepuff?” Harry asked. “Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott,” said Ron 
thickly. “And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for 
Ravenclaw,” said Hermione. “You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil,” said a 
vague voice. Page | 242Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Everyone turned to look at Luna Lovegood, who was 
gazing un-blinkingly at Ron over the top of The 
Quibbler. He swallowed his mouthful of Frog. “Yeah, I know I did,” he said, looking mildly 
surprised. “She didn’t enjoy it very much,” Luna informed him. 
“She doesn’t think you treated her very well, because 
you wouldn’t dance with her. I don’t think I’d have 
minded,” she added thoughtfully, “I don’t like dancing 
very much.” She retreated behind The Quibbler again. Ron stared 
at the cover with his mouth hanging open for a few 
seconds, then looked around at Ginny for some kind 
of explanation, but Ginny had stuffed her knuckles in 
her mouth to stop herself giggling. Ron shook his 
head, bemused, then checked his watch. “We’re supposed to patrol the corridors every so 
often,” he told Harry and Neville, “and we can give out 
punishments if people are misbehaving. I can’t wait to 
get Crabbe and Goyle for something...” “You’re not supposed to abuse your position, Ron!” 
said Hermione sharply. “Yeah, right, because Malfoy won’t abuse it at all,” 
said Ron sarcastically. “So you’re going to descend to his level?” “No, I’m just going to make sure I get his mates before 
he gets mine.” “For heaven’s sake, Ron — ” Page | 243Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “I’ll make Goyle do lines, it’ll kill him, he hates 
writing,” said Ron happily. He lowered his voice to 
Goyle ’s low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look 
of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. “I 
... must ... not ... look ... like ... a ... baboon’s ... 
backside...” Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than 
Luna Lovegood. She let out a scream of mirth that 
caused Hedwig to wake up and flap her wings 
indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the 
luggage rack, hissing. She laughed so hard that her 
magazine slipped out of her grasp, slid down her legs, 
and onto the floor. “That was funny\” Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped 
for breath, staring at Ron. Utterly nonplussed, he 
looked around at the others, who were now laughing 
at the expression on Ron’s face and at the ludicrously 
prolonged laughter of Luna Lovegood, who was 
rocking backward and forward, clutching her sides. “Are you taking the mickey?” said Ron, frowning at 
her. “Baboon’s ... backside!” she choked, holding her ribs. Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, but 
Harry, glancing at the magazine on the floor, noticed 
something that made him dive for it. Upside down it 
had been hard to tell what the picture on the front 
was, but Harry now realized it was a fairly bad 
cartoon of Cornelius Fudge; Harry only recognized 
him because of the lime-green bowler hat. One of 
Fudge’s hands was clenched around a bag of gold; the 
other hand was throttling a goblin. The cartoon was 
captioned: How Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts? 
Page | 244Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles 
inside the magazine. CORRUPTION IN THE QUIDDITCH LEAGUE: How the Tornados Are Taking Control 
SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT RUNES REVEALED 
SIRIUS BLACK: Villain or Victim? “Can I have a look at this?” Harry asked Luna eagerly. She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with 
laughter. Harry opened the magazine and scanned the index; 
until this moment he had completely forgotten the 
magazine Kingsley had handed Mr. Weasley to give to 
Sirius, but it must have been this edition of The 
Quibbler. He found the page and turned excitedly to 
the article. This too was illustrated by a rather bad cartoon; in 
fact, Harry would not have known it was supposed to 
be Sirius if it hadn’t been captioned. Sirius was 
standing on a pile of human bones with his wand out. 
The headline on the article read: SIRIUS - Black As He’s Painted? Notorious Mass Murderer OR Innocent Singing 
Sensation? Harry had to read this sentence several times before 
he was convinced that he had not misunderstood it. 
Since when had Sirius been a singing sensation? Page | 245Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling For fourteen years Sirius Black has been believed 
guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent Muggles 
and one wizard. Black’s audacious escape from 
Azkaban two years ago has led to the widest manhunt 
ever conducted by the Ministry of Magic. None of us 
has ever questioned that he deserves to be recaptured 
and handed back to the dementors. BUT DOES HE? Startling new evidence has recently come to light that 
Sirius Black may not have committed the crimes for 
which he was sent to Azkaban. In fact, says Doris 
Purkiss, of 18 Acanthia Way, Little Norton, Black may 
not even have been present at the killings. “What people don’t realize is that Sirius Black is a 
false name, ” says Mrs. Purkiss. “The man people 
believe to be Sirius Black is actually Stubby 
Boardman, lead singer of the popular singing group 
The Hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being 
struck in the ear by a turnip at a concert in Little 
Norton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I 
recognized him the moment I saw his picture in the 
paper. Now, Stubby couldn’t possibly have committed 
those crimes, because on the day in question he 
happened to be enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner 
with me. I have written to the Minister of Magic and am 
expecting him to give Stubby, alias Sirius, a full pardon 
any day now. ” Harry finished reading and stared at the page in 
disbelief. Perhaps it was a joke, he thought, perhaps 
the magazine often printed spoof items. He flicked 
back a few pages and found the piece on Fudge. Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic, denied that 
he had any plans to take over the running of the 
Wizarding Bank, Gringotts, when he was elected Page | 246Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Minister of Magic five years ago. Fudge has always 
insisted that he wants nothing more than to 
“cooperate peacefully” with the guardians of our gold. BUT DOES HE? Sources close to the Minister have recently disclosed 
that Fudge’s dearest ambition is to seize control of the 
goblin gold supplies and that he will not hesitate to 
use force if need be. “It wouldn’t be the first time, either,” said a Ministry 
insider. “Cornelius ‘Goblin-Crusher’ Fudge, that’s what 
his friends call him, if you could hear him when he 
thinks no one’s listening, oh, he’s always talking about 
the goblins he’s had done in; he’s had them drowned, 
he’s had them dropped off buildings, he’s had them 
poisoned, he’s had them cooked in pies...” Harry did not read any further. Fudge might have 
many faults but Harry found it extremely hard to 
imagine him ordering goblins to be cooked in pies. He 
flicked through the rest of the magazine. Pausing 
every few pages he read an accusation that the 
Tutshill Tornados were winning the Quidditch League 
by a combination of blackmail, illegal broom- 
tampering, and torture; an interview with a wizard 
who claimed to have flown to the moon on a 
Cleansweep Six and brought back a bag of moon frogs 
to prove it; and an article on ancient runes, which at 
least explained why Luna had been reading The 
Quibbler upside down. According to the magazine, if 
you turned the runes on their heads they revealed a 
spell to make your enemy’s ears turn into kumquats. 
In fact, compared to the rest of the articles in The 
Quibbler, the suggestion that Sirius might really be 
the lead singer of The Hobgoblins was quite sensible. 
Page | 247Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Anything good in there?” asked Ron as Harry closed 
the magazine. “Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly, before 
Harry could answer, “ The Quibbler’s rubbish, 
everyone knows that.” “Excuse me,” said Luna; her voice had suddenly lost 
its dreamy quality. “My father’s the editor.” “I — oh,” said Hermione, looking embarrassed. “Well 
... it’s got some interesting ... I mean, it’s quite ...” “I’ll have it back, thank you,” said Luna coldly, and 
leaning forward she snatched it out of Harry’s hands. 
Rifling through it to page fifty-seven, she turned it 
resolutely upside down again and disappeared behind 
it, just as the compartment door opened for the third 
time. Harry looked around; he had expected this, but 
that did not make the sight of Draco Malfoy smirking 
at him from between his cronies Crabbe and Goyle 
any more enjoyable. “What?” he said aggressively, before Malfoy could 
open his mouth. “Manners, Potter, or I’ll have to give you a detention,” 
drawled Malfoy, whose sleek blond hair and pointed 
chin were just like his father’s. “You see, I, unlike 
you, have been made a prefect, which means that I, 
unlike you, have the power to hand out 
punishments.” “Yeah,” said Harry, “but you, unlike me, are a git, so 
get out and leave us alone.” Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville laughed. Malfoy’s 
lip curled. Page | 248Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Tell me, how does it feel being second-best to 
Weasley, Potter?” he asked. “Shut up, Malfoy,” said Hermione sharply. “I seem to have touched a nerve,” said Malfoy, 
smirking. “Well, just watch yourself, Potter, because 
I’ll be dogging your footsteps in case you step out of 
line.” “Get out!” said Hermione, standing up. Sniggering, Malfoy gave Harry a last malicious look 
and departed, Crabbe and Goyle lumbering in his 
wake. Hermione slammed the compartment door 
behind them and turned to look at Harry, who knew 
at once that she, like him, had registered what Malfoy 
had said and been just as unnerved by it. “Chuck us another Frog,” said Ron, who had clearly 
noticed nothing. Harry could not talk freely in front of Neville and 
Luna. He exchanged another nervous look with 
Hermione and then stared out of the window. He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station 
was a bit of a laugh, but suddenly it seemed reckless, 
if not downright dangerous... Hermione had been 
right... Sirius should not have come. What if Mr. 
Malfoy had noticed the black dog and told Draco, 
what if he had deduced that the Weasleys, Lupin, 
Tonks, and Moody knew where Sirius was hiding? Or 
had Malfoy’s use of the word “dogging” been a 
coincidence? The weather remained undecided as they traveled 
farther and farther north. Rain spattered the windows 
in a halfhearted way, then the sun put in a feeble Page | 249Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling appearance before clouds drifted over it once more. 
When darkness fell and lamps came on inside the 
carriages, Luna rolled up The Quibbler, put it 
carefully away in her bag, and took to staring at 
everyone in the compartment instead. Harry was sitting with his forehead pressed against 
the train window, trying to get a first distant glimpse 
of Hogwarts, but it was a moonless night and the 
rain-streaked window was grimy. “We’d better change,” said Hermione at last. She and 
Ron pinned their prefect badges carefully to their 
chests. Harry saw Ron checking how it looked in the 
black window. At last the train began to slow down and they heard 
the usual racket up and down it as everybody 
scrambled to get their luggage and pets assembled, 
ready for departure. Ron and Hermione were 
supposed to supervise all this; they disappeared from 
the carriage again, leaving Harry and the others to 
look after Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon. “I’ll carry that owl, if you like,” said Luna to Harry, 
reaching out for Pigwidgeon as Neville stowed Trevor 
carefully in an inside pocket. “Oh — er — thanks,” said Harry, handing her the 
cage and hoisting Hedwig’s more securely into his 
arms. They shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first 
sting of the night air on their faces as they joined the 
crowd in the corridor. Slowly they moved toward the 
doors. Harry could smell the pine trees that lined the 
path down to the lake. He stepped down onto the 
platform and looked around, listening for the familiar 
call of “Firs’ years over here ... firs’ years ...” Page | 250Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling But it did not come. Instead a quite different voice, a 
brisk female one, was calling, “First years line up over 
here, please! All first years to me!” A lantern came swinging toward Harry and by its light 
he saw the prominent chin and severe haircut of 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, the witch who had taken 
over Hagrid ’s Care of Magical Creatures lessons for a 
while the previous year. “Where’s Hagrid?” he said out loud. “I don’t know,” said Ginny, “but we’d better get out of 
the way, we’re blocking the door.” “Oh yeah ...” Harry and Ginny became separated as they moved off 
along the platform and out through the station. 
Jostled by the crowd, Harry squinted through the 
darkness for a glimpse of Hagrid; he had to be here, 
Harry had been relying on it — seeing Hagrid again 
had been one of the things to which he had been 
looking forward most. But there was no sign of him at 
all. He can’t have left, Harry told himself as he shuffled 
slowly through a narrow doorway onto the road 
outside with the rest of the crowd. He’s just got a cold 
or something... He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to 
know what they thought about the reappearance of 
Professor Grubbly-Plank, but neither of them was 
anywhere near him, so he allowed himself to be 
shunted forward onto the dark rain-washed road 
outside Hogsmeade station. Page | 251Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches 
that always took the students above first year up to 
the castle. Harry glanced quickly at them, turned 
away to keep a lookout for Ron and Hermione, then 
did a double take. The coaches were no longer horseless. There were 
creatures standing between the carriage shafts; if he 
had had to give them a name, he supposed he would 
have called them horses, though there was something 
reptilian about them, too. They were completely 
fleshless, their black coats clinging to their skeletons, 
of which every bone was visible. Their heads were 
dragonish, and their pupil-less eyes white and 
staring. Wings sprouted from each wither — vast, 
black leathery wings that looked as though they 
ought to belong to giant bats. Standing still and quiet 
in the gloom, the creatures looked eerie and sinister. 
Harry could not understand why the coaches were 
being pulled by these horrible horses when they were 
quite capable of moving along by themselves. “Where’s Pig?” said Ron’s voice, right behind Harry. “That Luna girl was carrying him,” said Harry, 
turning quickly, eager to consult Ron about Hagrid. 
“Where d’you reckon — ” “ — Hagrid is? I dunno,” said Ron, sounding worried. 
“He’d better be okay...” A short distance away, Draco Malfoy, followed by a 
small gang of cronies including Crabbe, Goyle, and 
Pansy Parkinson, was pushing some timid-looking 
second years out of the way so that they could get a 
coach to themselves. Seconds later Hermione emerged 
panting from the crowd. Page | 252Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Malfoy was being absolutely foul to a first year back 
there, I swear I’m going to report him, he’s only had 
his badge three minutes and he’s using it to bully 
people worse than ever... Where’s Crookshanks?” “Ginny’s got him,” said Harry. “There she is...” Ginny had just emerged from the crowd, clutching a 
squirming Crookshanks. “Thanks,” said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. 
“Come on, let’s get a carriage together before they all 
fillup...” “I haven’t got Pig yet!” Ron said, but Hermione was 
already heading off toward the nearest unoccupied 
coach. Harry remained behind with Ron. “What are those things, d’you reckon?” he asked Ron, 
nodding at the horrible horses as the other students 
surged past them. “What things?” “Those horse — ” Luna appeared holding Pigwidgeon’s cage in her 
arms; the tiny owl was twittering excitedly as usual. “Here you are,” she said. “He’s a sweet little owl, isn’t 
he?” “Er ... yeah ... He’s all right,” said Ron gruffly. “Well, 
come on then, let’s get in... what were you saying, 
Harry?” “I was saying, what are those horse things?” Harry 
said, as he, Ron, and Luna made for the carriage in 
which Hermione and Ginny were already sitting. Page | 253Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “What horse things?” “The horse things pulling the carriages!” said Harry 
impatiently; they were, after all, about three feet from 
the nearest one; it was watching them with empty 
white eyes. Ron, however, gave Harry a perplexed 
look. “What are you talking about?” “I’m talking about — look!” Harry grabbed Ron’s arm and wheeled him about so 
that he was face-to-face with the winged horse. Ron 
stared straight at it for a second, then looked back at 
Harry. “What am I supposed to be looking at?” “At the — there, between the shafts! Harnessed to the 
coach! It’s right there in front — ” But as Ron continued to look bemused, a strange 
thought occurred to Harry. “Can’t ... can’t you see them?” “See what?” “Can’t you see what’s pulling the carriages?” Ron looked seriously alarmed now. “Are you feeling all right, Harry?” “I ... yeah ...” Harry felt utterly bewildered. The horse was there in 
front of him, gleaming solidly in the dim light issuing Page | 254Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling from the station windows behind them, vapor rising 
from its nostrils in the chilly night air. Yet unless Ron 
was faking — and it was a very feeble joke if he was — 
Ron could not see it at all. “Shall we get in, then?” said Ron uncertainly, looking 
at Harry as though worried about him. “Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah, go on ...” “It’s all right,” said a dreamy voice from beside Harry 
as Ron vanished into the coach’s dark interior. “You’re not going mad or anything. I can see them 
too.” “Can you?” said Harry desperately, turning to Luna. 
He could see the bat-winged horses reflected in her 
wide, silvery eyes. “Oh yes,” said Luna, “I’ve been able to see them ever 
since my first day here. They’ve always pulled the 
carriages. Don’t worry. You’re just as sane as I am.” Smiling faintly, she climbed into the musty interior of 
the carriage after Ron. Not altogether reassured, Harry followed her. Page | 255Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling XX THE SORTING HAT’S NEW SONG Harry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna 
were having the same hallucination, if that was what 
it was, so he said nothing about the horses as he sat 
down inside the carriage and slammed the door 
behind him. Nevertheless, he could not help watching 
the silhouettes of the horses moving beyond the 
window. “Did everyone see that Grubbly-Plank woman?” asked 
Ginny. “What’s she doing back here? Hagrid can’t 
have left, can he?” “I’ll be quite glad if he has,” said Luna. “He isn’t a 
very good teacher, is he?” “Yes, he is!” said Harry, Ron, and Ginny angrily. Harry glared at Hermione; she cleared her throat and 
quickly said, “Erm ... yes ... he’s very good.” “Well, we think he’s a bit of a joke in Ravenclaw,” said 
Luna, unfazed. Page | 256Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “You’ve got a rubbish sense of humor then,” Ron 
snapped, as the wheels below them creaked into 
motion. Luna did not seem perturbed by Ron’s rudeness; on 
the contrary, she simply watched him for a while as 
though he were a mildly interesting television 
program. Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy 
up the road. When they passed between the tall stone 
pillars topped with winged boars on either side of the 
gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned forward to 
try and see whether there were any lights on in 
Hagrid’s cabin by the Forbidden Forest, but the 
grounds were in complete darkness. Hogwarts Castle, 
however, loomed ever closer: a towering mass of 
turrets, jet-black against the dark sky, here and there 
a window blazing fiery bright above them. The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps 
leading up to the oak front doors and Harry got out of 
the carriage first. He turned again to look for lit 
windows down by the forest, but there was definitely 
no sign of life within Hagrid’s cabin. Unwillingly, 
because he had half hoped they would have vanished, 
he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal 
creatures standing quietly in the chill night air, their 
blank white eyes gleaming. Harry had once before had the experience of seeing 
something that Ron could not, but that had been a 
reflection in a mirror, something much more 
insubstantial than a hundred very solid-looking 
beasts strong enough to pull a fleet of carriages. If 
Luna was to be believed, the beasts had always been 
there but invisible; why, then, could Harry suddenly 
see them, and why could Ron not? Page | 257Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Are you coming or what?” said Ron beside him. “Oh ... yeah,” said Harry quickly, and they joined the 
crowd hurrying up the stone steps into the castle. The entrance hall was ablaze with torches and 
echoing with footsteps as the students crossed the 
flagged stone floor for the double doors to the right, 
leading to the Great Hall and the start-of-term feast. The four long House tables in the Great Hall were 
filling up under the starless black ceiling, which was 
just like the sky they could glimpse through the high 
windows. Candles floated in midair all along the 
tables, illuminating the silvery ghosts who were 
dotted about the Hall and the faces of the students 
talking eagerly to one another, exchanging summer 
news, shouting greetings at friends from other 
Houses, eyeing one another’s new haircuts and robes. 
Again Harry noticed people putting their heads 
together to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth 
and tried to act as though he neither noticed nor 
cared. Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw table. 
The moment they reached Gryffindor’s, Ginny was 
hailed by some fellow fourth years and left to sit with 
them; Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville found seats 
together about halfway down the table between Nearly 
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor House ghost, and 
Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown, the last two of 
whom gave Harry airy, overly friendly greetings that 
made him quite sure they had stopped talking about 
him a split second before. He had more important 
things to worry about, however: He was looking over 
the students’ heads to the staff table that ran along 
the top wall of the Hall. “He’s not there.” Page | 258Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Ron and Hermione scanned the staff table too, though 
there was no real need; Hagrid’s size made him 
instantly obvious in any lineup. “He can’t have left,” said Ron, sounding slightly 
anxious. “Of course he hasn’t,” said Harry firmly. “You don’t think he’s ... hurt, or anything, do you?” 
said Hermione uneasily. “No,” said Harry at once. “But where is he, then?” There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so 
that Neville, Parvati, and Lavender could not hear, 
“Maybe he’s not back yet. You know — from his 
mission — the thing he was doing over the summer 
for Dumbledore.” “Yeah ... yeah, that’ll be it,” said Ron, sounding 
reassured, but Hermione bit her lip, looking up and 
down the staff table as though hoping for some 
conclusive explanation of Hagrid’s absence. “Who’s that?” she said sharply, pointing toward the 
middle of the staff table. Harry’s eyes followed hers. They lit first upon 
Professor Dumbledore, sitting in his high-backed 
golden chair at the center of the long staff table, 
wearing deep-purple robes scattered with silvery stars 
and a matching hat. Dumbledore’s head was inclined 
toward the woman sitting next to him, who was 
talking into his ear. She looked, Harry thought, like 
somebody’s maiden aunt: squat, with short, curly, 
mouse-brown hair in which she had placed a horrible 
Page | 259Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling pink Alice band that matched the fluffy pink cardigan 
she wore over her robes. Then she turned her face 
slightly to take a sip from her goblet and he saw, with 
a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a 
pair of prominent, pouchy eyes. “It’s that Umbridge woman!” “Who?” said Hermione. “She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!” “Nice cardigan,” said Ron, smirking. “She works for Fudge?” Hermione repeated, frowning. 
“What on earth’s she doing here, then?” “Dunno ...” Hermione scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed. “No,” she muttered, “no, surely not ...” Harry did not understand what she was talking about 
but did not ask; his attention had just been caught by 
Professor Grubbly-Plank who had just appeared 
behind the staff table; she worked her way along to 
the very end and took the seat that ought to have 
been Hagrid’s. That meant that the first years must 
have crossed the lake and reached the castle, and 
sure enough, a few seconds later, the doors from the 
entrance hall opened. A long line of scared-looking 
first years entered, led by Professor McGonagall, who 
was carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard’s 
hat, heavily patched and darned with a wide rip near 
the frayed brim. The buzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The 
first years lined up in front of the staff table facing the Page | 260Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling rest of the students, and Professor McGonagall placed 
the stool carefully in front of them, then stood back. The first years’ faces glowed palely in the candlelight. 
A small boy right in the middle of the row looked as 
though he was trembling. Harry recalled, fleetingly, 
how terrified he had felt when he had stood there, 
waiting for the unknown test that would determine to 
which House he belonged. The whole school waited with bated breath. Then the 
rip near the hat’s brim opened wide like a mouth and 
the Sorting Hat burst into song: In times of old when I was new 
And Hogwarts barely started 
The founders of our noble school 
Thought never to be parted: United by a common goal, They had the selfsame yearning, To make the world’s best magic school 
And pass along their learning. “Together we will build and teach!” The four good friends decided 
And never did they dream that they 
Might someday be divided, For were there such friends anywhere 
As Slytherin and Gryffndor? Unless it was the second pair 
Of Huffepuff and Ravenclaw? So how could it have gone so wrong? How could such friendships fail? Why, I was there and so can tell 
The whole sad, sorry tale. Said Slytherin, “We’ll teach just those 
Whose ancestry is purest.” Said Ravenclaw, “We’ll teach those whose 
Intelligence is surest.” Said Gryffindor, “We’ll teach all those Page | 261Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling With brave deeds to their name,” Said Hufflepuff, “111 teach the lot, And treat them just the same.” These differences caused little strife 
When first they came to light, For each of the four founders had 
A House in which they might 
Take only those they wanted, so, For instance, Slytherin 
Took only pure-blood wizards 
Of great cunning, just like him, And only those of sharpest mind 
Were taught by Ravenclaw 
While the bravest and the boldest 
Went to daring Gryffindor. Good Hufflepuff she took the rest, And taught them all she knew, Thus the Houses and their founders 
Retained friendships firm and true. So Hogwarts worked in harmony 
For several happy years, But then discord crept among us 
Feeding on our faults and fears. The Houses that, like pillars four, Had once held up our school, Now turned upon each other and, Divided, sought to rule. And for a while it seemed the school 
Must meet an early end, What with dueling and with fighting 
And the clash of friend on friend 
And at last there came a morning 
When old Slytherin departed 
And though the fighting then died out 
He left us quite downhearted. And never since the founders four 
Were whittled down to three 
Have the Houses been united 
As they once were meant to be. Page | 262Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling And now the Sorting Hat is here 
And you all know the score: I sort you into Houses 
Because that is what I’m for, But this year I’ll go further, Listen closely to my song: Though condemned I am to split you 
Still I worry that it’s wrong, Though I must fulfill my duty 
And must quarter every year 
Still I wonder whether sorting 
May not bring the end I fear. Oh, know the perils, read the signs, The warning history shows, For our Hogwarts is in danger 
From external, deadly foes 
And we must unite inside her 
Or we’ll crumble from within. I have told you, I have warned you... Let the Sorting now begin. The hat became motionless once more; applause 
broke out, though it was punctured, for the first time 
in Harry’s memory, with muttering and whispers. All 
across the Great Hall students were exchanging 
remarks with their neighbors and Harry, clapping 
along with everyone else, knew exactly what they were 
talking about. “Branched out a bit this year, hasn’t it?” said Ron, his 
eyebrows raised. “Too right it has,” said Harry. The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to describing 
the different qualities looked for by each of the four 
Hogwarts Houses and its own role in sorting them; 
Harry could not remember it ever trying to give the 
school advice before. Page | 263Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “I wonder if it’s ever given warnings before?” said 
Hermione, sounding slightly anxious. “Yes, indeed,” said Nearly Headless Nick 
knowledgeably, leaning across Neville toward her 
(Neville winced, it was very uncomfortable to have a 
ghost lean through you). “The hat feels itself honor- 
bound to give the school due warning whenever it 
feels — ” But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read 
out the list of first years’ names, was giving the 
whispering students the sort of look that scorches. 
Nearly Headless Nick placed a see-through finger to 
his lips and sat primly upright again as the muttering 
came to an abrupt end. With a last frowning look that 
swept the four House tables, Professor McGonagall 
lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment and 
called out, “Abercrombie, Euan.” The terrified-looking boy Harry had noticed earlier 
stumbled forward and put the hat on his head; it was 
only prevented from falling right down to his 
shoulders by his very prominent ears. The hat 
considered for a moment, then the rip near the brim 
opened again and shouted, “ GR YFFIND OR ! ” Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor 
House as Euan Abercrombie staggered to their table 
and sat down, looking as though he would like very 
much to sink through the floor and never be looked at 
again. Slowly the long line of first years thinned; in the 
pauses between the names and the Sorting Hat’s 
decisions, Harry could hear Ron’s stomach rumbling 
loudly. Finally, “Zeller, Rose” was sorted into Page | 264Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Hufflepuff, and Professor McGonagall picked up the 
hat and stool and marched them away as Professor 
Dumbledore rose to his feet. Harry was somehow soothed to see Dumbledore 
standing before them all, whatever his recent bitter 
feelings toward his headmaster. Between the absence 
of Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish horses, 
he had felt that his return to Hogwarts, so long 
anticipated, was full of unexpected surprises like 
jarring notes in a familiar song. But this, at least, was 
how it was supposed to be: their headmaster rising to 
greet them all before the start-of-term feast. “To our newcomers,” said Dumbledore in a ringing 
voice, his arms stretched wide and a beaming smile 
on his lips, “welcome! To our old hands — welcome 
back! There is a time for speech making, but this is 
not it. Tuck in!” There was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of 
applause as Dumbledore sat down neatly and threw 
his long beard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of 
the way of his plate — for food had appeared out of 
nowhere, so that the five long tables were groaning 
under joints and pies and dishes of vegetables, bread, 
sauces, and flagons of pumpkin juice. “Excellent,” said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, 
and he seized the nearest plate of chops and began 
piling them onto his plate, watched wistfully by 
Nearly Headless Nick. “What were you saying before the Sorting?” Hermione 
asked the ghost. “About the hat giving warnings?” “Oh yes,” said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to 
turn away from Ron, who was now eating roast 
potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. “Yes, I Page | 265Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling have heard the hat give several warnings before, 
always at times when it detects periods of great 
danger for the school. And always, of course, its 
advice is the same: Stand together, be strong from 
within.” “Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?” said Ron. His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an 
achievement for him to make any noise at all. “I beg your pardon?” said Nearly Headless Nick 
politely, while Hermione looked revolted. Ron gave an 
enormous swallow and said, “How can it know if the 
school’s in danger if it’s a hat?” “I have no idea,” said Nearly Headless Nick. “Of 
course, it lives in Dumbledore’s office, so I daresay it 
picks things up there.” “And it wants all the Houses to be friends?” said 
Harry, looking over at the Slytherin table, where 
Draco Malfoy was holding court. “Fat chance.” “Well, now, you shouldn’t take that attitude,” said 
Nick reprovingly. “Peaceful cooperation, that’s the 
key. We ghosts, though we belong to separate Houses, 
maintain links of friendship. In spite of the 
competitiveness between Gryffindor and Slytherin, I 
would never dream of seeking an argument with the 
Bloody Baron.” “Only because you’re terrified of him,” said Ron. Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted. “Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy- 
Porpington, have never been guilty of cowardice in my 
life! The noble blood that runs in my veins — ” Page | 266Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “What blood?” asked Ron. “Surely you haven’t still got 
— ?” “It’s a figure of speech!” said Nearly Headless Nick, 
now so annoyed his head was trembling ominously on 
his partially severed neck. “I assume I am still allowed 
to enjoy the use of whichever words I like, even if the 
pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I 
am quite used to students poking fun at my death, I 
assure you!” “Nick, he wasn’t really laughing at you!” said 
Hermione, throwing a furious look at Ron. Unfortunately, Ron’s mouth was packed to exploding 
point again and all he could manage was “node 
iddum eentup sechew,” which Nick did not seem to 
think constituted an adequate apology. Rising into 
the air, he straightened his feathered hat and swept 
away from them to the other end of the table, coming 
to rest between the Creevey brothers, Colin and 
Dennis. “Well done, Ron,” snapped Hermione. “What?” said Ron indignantly, having managed, 
finally, to swallow his food. “I’m not allowed to ask a 
simple question?” “Oh forget it,” said Hermione irritably, and the pair of 
them spent the rest of the meal in huffy silence. Harry was too used to their bickering to bother trying 
to reconcile them; he felt it was a better use of his 
time to eat his way steadily through his steak-and- 
kidney pie, then a large plateful of his favorite treacle 
tart. Page | 267Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling When all the students had finished eating and the 
noise level in the hall was starting to creep upward 
again, Dumbledore got to his feet once more. Talking 
ceased immediately as all turned to face the 
headmaster. Harry was feeling pleasantly drowsy 
now. His four-poster bed was waiting somewhere 
above, wonderfully warm and soft... “Well, now that we are all digesting another 
magnificent feast, I beg a few moments of your 
attention for the usual start-of-term notices,” said 
Dumbledore. “First years ought to know that the 
forest in the grounds is out of bounds to students — 
and a few of our older students ought to know by now 
too.” (Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged smirks.) “Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he 
tells me is the four hundred and sixty-second time, to 
remind you all that magic is not permitted in 
corridors between classes, nor are a number of other 
things, all of which can be checked on the extensive 
list now fastened to Mr. Filch’s office door. “We have had two changes in staffing this year. We 
are very pleased to welcome back Professor Grubbly- 
Plank, who will be taking Care of Magical Creatures 
lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor 
Umbridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher.” There was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic 
applause during which Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
exchanged slightly panicked looks; Dumbledore had 
not said for how long Grubbly-Plank would be 
teaching. Dumbledore continued, “Tryouts for the House 
Quidditch teams will take place on the — ” Page | 268Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling He broke off, looking inquiringly at Professor 
Umbridge. As she was not much taller standing than 
sitting, there was a moment when nobody understood 
why Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then 
Professor Umbridge said, “Hem, hem,” and it became 
clear that she had got to her feet and was intending to 
make a speech. Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, 
then he sat back down smartly and looked alertly at 
Professor Umbridge as though he desired nothing 
better than to listen to her talk. Other members of 
staff were not as adept at hiding their surprise. 
Professor Sprout’s eyebrows had disappeared into her 
flyaway hair, and Professor McGonagall’s mouth was 
as thin as Harry had ever seen it. No new teacher had 
ever interrupted Dumbledore before. Many of the 
students were smirking; this woman obviously did not 
know how things were done at Hogwarts. “Thank you, Headmaster,” Professor Umbridge 
simpered, “for those kind words of welcome.” Her voice was high-pitched, breathy, and little-girlish 
and again, Harry felt a powerful rush of dislike that 
he could not explain to himself; all he knew was that 
he loathed everything about her, from her stupid 
voice to her fluffy pink cardigan. She gave another 
little throat-clearing cough (“Hem, hem”) and 
continued: “Well, it is lovely to be back at Hogwarts, I 
must say!” She smiled, revealing very pointed teeth. 
“And to see such happy little faces looking back at 
me!” Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see 
looked happy; on the contrary, they all looked rather 
taken aback at being addressed as though they were 
five years old. Page | 269Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “I am very much looking forward to getting to know 
you all, and I’m sure well be very good friends!” Students exchanged looks at this; some of them were 
barely concealing grins. “I’ll be her friend as long as I don’t have to borrow 
that cardigan,” Parvati whispered to Lavender, and 
both of them lapsed into silent giggles. Professor Umbridge cleared her throat again (“Hem, 
hem”), but when she continued, some of the 
breathiness had vanished from her voice. She 
sounded much more businesslike and now her words 
had a dull learned-by-heart sound to them. “The Ministry of Magic has always considered the 
education of young witches and wizards to be of vital 
importance. The rare gifts with which you were born 
may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by 
careful instruction. The ancient skills unique to the 
Wizarding community must be passed down through 
the generations lest we lose them forever. The 
treasure trove of magical knowledge amassed by our 
ancestors must be guarded, replenished, and polished 
by those who have been called to the noble profession 
of teaching.” Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little 
bow to her fellow staff members, none of whom bowed 
back. Professor McGonagall’s dark eyebrows had 
contracted so that she looked positively hawklike, and 
Harry distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance 
with Professor Sprout as Umbridge gave another little 
“Hem, hem” and went on with her speech. “Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has 
brought something new to the weighty task of 
governing this historic school, and that is as it should Page | 270Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling be, for without progress there will be stagnation and 
decay. There again, progress for progress’s sake must 
be discouraged, for our tried and tested traditions 
often require no tinkering. A balance, then, between 
old and new, between permanence and change, 
between tradition and innovation ...” Harry found his attentiveness ebbing, as though his 
brain was slipping in and out of tune. The quiet that 
always filled the Hall when Dumbledore was speaking 
was breaking up as students put their heads 
together, whispering and giggling. Over at the 
Ravenclaw table, Cho Chang was chatting animatedly 
with her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Luna 
Lovegood had got out The Quibbler again. Meanwhile 
at the Hufflepuff table, Ernie Macmillan was one of 
the few still staring at Professor Umbridge, but he was 
glassy-eyed and Harry was sure he was only 
pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the 
new prefect’s badge gleaming on his chest. Professor Umbridge did not seem to notice the 
restlessness of her audience. Harry had the 
impression that a full-scale riot could have broken 
out under her nose and she would have plowed on 
with her speech. The teachers, however, were still 
listening very attentively, and Hermione seemed to be 
drinking in every word Umbridge spoke, though 
judging by her expression, they were not at all to her 
taste. "... because some changes will be for the better, while 
others will come, in the fullness of time, to be 
recognized as errors of judgment. Meanwhile, some 
old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas 
others, outmoded and outworn, must be abandoned. 
Let us move forward, then, into a new era of 
openness, effectiveness, and accountability, intent on 
preserving what ought to be preserved, perfecting 
Page | 271Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we 
find practices that ought to be prohibited.” She sat down. Dumbledore clapped. The staff followed 
his lead, though Harry noticed that several of them 
brought their hands together only once or twice 
before stopping. A few students joined in, but most 
had been taken unawares by the end of the speech, 
not having listened to more than a few words of it, 
and before they could start applauding properly, 
Dumbledore had stood up again. “Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was 
most illuminating,” he said, bowing to her. “Now — as 
I was saying, Quidditch tryouts will be held ...” “Yes, it certainly was illuminating,” said Hermione in 
a low voice. “You’re not telling me you enjoyed it?” Ron said 
quietly, turning a glazed face upon Hermione. “That 
was about the dullest speech I’ve ever heard, and I 
grew up with Percy.” “I said illuminating, not enjoyable,” said Hermione. “It 
explained a lot.” “Did it?” said Harry in surprise. “Sounded like a load 
of waffle to me.” “There was some important stuff hidden in the 
waffle,” said Hermione grimly. “Was there?” said Ron blankly. “How about ‘progress for progress’s sake must be 
discouraged’? How about ‘pruning wherever we find 
practices that ought to be prohibited’?” Page | 272Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “Well, what does that mean?” said Ron impatiently. “Ill tell you what it means,” said Hermione ominously. 
“It means the Ministry’s interfering at Hogwarts.” There was a great clattering and banging all around 
them; Dumbledore had obviously just dismissed the 
school, because everyone was standing up ready to 
leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, looking 
flustered. “Ron, we’re supposed to show the first years where to 
go!” “Oh yeah,” said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. 
“Hey — hey you lot! Midgets!” “Ron\” “Well, they are, they’re titchy...” “I know, but you can’t call them midgets... First 
years!” Hermione called commandingly along the 
table. “This way, please!” A group of new students walked shyly up the gap 
between the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables, all of 
them trying hard not to lead the group. They did 
indeed seem very small; Harry was sure he had not 
appeared that young when he had arrived here. He 
grinned at them. A blond boy next to Euan 
Abercrombie looked petrified, nudged Euan, and 
whispered something in his ear. Euan Abercrombie 
looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at 
Harry, who felt the grin slide off his face like 
Stinksap. “See you later,” he said to Ron and Hermione and he 
made his way out of the Great Hall alone, doing Page | 273Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling everything he could to ignore more whispering, 
staring, and pointing as he passed. He kept his eyes 
fixed ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in 
the entrance hall, then he hurried up the marble 
staircase, took a couple of concealed shortcuts, and 
had soon left most of the crowds behind. He had been stupid not to expect this, he thought 
angrily, as he walked through much emptier upstairs 
corridors. Of course everyone was staring at him: He 
had emerged from the Triwizard maze two months ago 
clutching the dead body of a fellow student and 
claiming to have seen Lord Voldemort return to 
power. There had not been time last term to explain 
himself before everyone went home, even if he had felt 
up to giving the whole school a detailed account of the 
terrible events in that graveyard. He had reached the end of the corridor to the 
Gryffindor common room and had come to a halt in 
front of the portrait of the Fat Lady before he realized 
that he did not know the new password. “Er ...” he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, 
who smoothed the folds of her pink satin dress and 
looked sternly back at him. “No password, no entrance,” she said loftily. “Harry, I know it!” someone panted from behind him, 
and he turned to see Neville jogging toward him. 
“Guess what it is? I’m actually going to be able to 
remember it for once — ” He waved the stunted little 
cactus he had shown them on the train. “Mimbulus 
mimbletonio 1” “Correct,” said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung 
open toward them like a door, revealing a circular Page | 274Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling hole in the wall behind, through which Harry and 
Neville now climbed. The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as 
ever, a cozy circular tower room full of dilapidated 
squashy armchairs and rickety old tables. A fire was 
crackling merrily in the grate and a few people were 
warming their hands before going up to their 
dormitories; on the other side of the room Fred and 
George Weasley were pinning something up on the 
notice board. Harry waved good night to them and 
headed straight for the door to the boys’ dormitories; 
he was not in much of a mood for talking at the 
moment. Neville followed him. Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the 
dormitory first and were in the process of covering the 
walls beside their beds with posters and photographs. 
They had been talking as Harry pushed open the door 
but stopped abruptly the moment they saw him. Harry wondered whether they had been talking about 
him, then whether he was being paranoid. “Hi,” he said, moving across to his own trunk and 
opening it. “Hey, Harry,” said Dean, who was putting on a pair of 
pajamas in the West Ham colors. “Good holiday?” “Not bad,” muttered Harry, as a true account of his 
holiday would have taken most of the night to relate 
and he could not face it. “You?” “Yeah, it was okay,” chuckled Dean. “Better than 
Seamus’s anyway, he was just telling me.” “Why, what happened, Seamus?” Neville asked as he 
placed his Mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his 
bedside cabinet. Page | 275Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Seamus did not answer immediately; he was making 
rather a meal of ensuring that his poster of the 
Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team was quite straight. 
Then he said, with his back still turned to Harry, “Me 
mam didn’t want me to come back.” “What?” said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off 
his robes. “She didn’t want me to come back to Hogwarts.” Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his 
own pajamas out of his trunk, still not looking at 
Harry. “But — why?” said Harry, astonished. He knew that 
Seamus’s mother was a witch and could not 
understand, therefore, why she should have come 
over so Dursley-ish. Seamus did not answer until he had finished 
buttoning his pajamas. “Well,” he said in a measured voice, “I suppose ... 
because of you.” “What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly. His heart was 
beating rather fast. He felt vaguely as though 
something was closing in on him. “Well,” said Seamus again, still avoiding Harry’s eyes, 
“she ... er ... well, it’s not just you, it’s Dumbledore 
too ...” “She believes the Daily Prophet?” said Harry. “She 
thinks I’m a liar and Dumbledore ’s an old fool?” Seamus looked up at him. “Yeah, something like 
that.” Page | 276Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down onto his 
bedside table, pulled off his robes, stuffed them 
angrily into his trunk, and pulled on his pajamas. He 
was sick of it; sick of being the person who was stared 
at and talked about all the time. If any of them knew, 
if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to 
be the one all these things had happened to ... Mrs. 
Finnigan had no idea, the stupid woman, he thought 
savagely. He got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed 
around him, but before he could do so, Seamus said, 
“Look . . . what did happen that night when . . . you 
know, when . . . with Cedric Diggory and all?” Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. 
Dean, who had been bending over his trunk, trying to 
retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry knew he 
was listening hard. “What are you asking me for?” Harry retorted. “Just 
read the Daily Prophet like your mother, why don’t 
you? That’ll tell you all you need to know.” “Don’t you have a go at my mother,” snapped 
Seamus. “I’ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,” said 
Harry. “Don’t talk to me like that!” “I’ll talk to you how I want,” said Harry, his temper 
rising so fast he snatched his wand back from his 
bedside table. “If you’ve got a problem sharing a 
dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can 
be moved, stop your mummy worrying — ” “Leave my mother out of this, Potter!” Page | 277Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling “What’s going on?” Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes 
traveled from Harry, who was kneeling on his bed 
with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus, who 
was standing there with his fists raised. “He’s having a go at my mother!” Seamus yelled. “What?” said Ron. “Harry wouldn’t do that — we met 
your mother, we liked her...” “That’s before she started believing every word the 
stinking Daily Prophet writes about me!” said Harry at 
the top of his voice. “Oh,” said Ron, comprehension dawning across his 
freckled face. “Oh ... right.” “You know what?” said Seamus heatedly, casting 
Harry a venomous look. “He’s right, I don’t want to 
share a dormitory with him anymore, he’s a 
madman.” “That’s out of order, Seamus,” said Ron, whose ears 
were starting to glow red, always a danger sign. “Out of order, am I?” shouted Seamus, who in 
contrast with Ron was turning paler. “You believe all 
the rubbish he’s come out with about You-Know-Who, 
do you, you reckon he’s telling the truth?” “Yeah, I do!” said Ron angrily. “Then you’re mad too,” said Seamus in disgust. “Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, I’m also a 
prefect!” said Ron, jabbing himself in the chest with a Page | 278Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling finger. “So unless you want detention, watch your 
mouth!” Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention 
would be a reasonable price to pay to say what was 
going through his mind; but with a noise of contempt 
he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed, and pulled 
the hangings shut with such violence that they were 
ripped from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to the 
floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean and 
Neville. “Anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry?” he 
said aggressively. “My parents are Muggles, mate,” said Dean, 
shrugging. “They don’t know nothing about no deaths 
at Hogwarts, because I’m not stupid enough to tell 
them.” “You don’t know my mother, she’ll weasel anything 
out of anyone!” Seamus snapped at him. “Anyway, 
your parents don’t get the Daily Prophet, they don’t 
know our headmaster’s been sacked from the 
Wizengamot and the International Confederation of 
Wizards because he’s losing his marbles — ” “My gran says that’s rubbish,” piped up Neville. “She 
says it’s the Daily Prophet that’s going downhill, not 
Dumbledore. She’s canceled our subscription. We 
believe Harry,” he said simply. He climbed into bed 
and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly 
over them at Seamus. “My gran’s always said You- 
Know-Who would come back one day. She says if 
Dumbledore says he’s back, he’s back.” Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville. Nobody 
else said anything. Seamus got out his wand, repaired 
the bed hangings, and vanished behind them. Dean Page | 279Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling got into bed, rolled over, and fell silent. Neville, who 
appeared to have nothing more to say either, was 
gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus. Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled 
around the next bed, putting his things away. He felt 
shaken by the argument with Seamus, whom he had 
always liked very much. How many more people were 
going to suggest that he was lying or unhinged? Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as 
first the Wizengamot, then the International 
Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their 
ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that had 
stopped Dumbledore getting in touch with him for 
months? The two of them were in this together, after 
all; Dumbledore had believed Harry, announced his 
version of events to the whole school and then to the 
wider Wizarding community. Anyone who thought 
Harry was a liar had to think that Dumbledore was 
too or else that Dumbledore had been hoodwinked... They’ll know we’re right in the end, thought Harry 
miserably, as Ron got into bed and extinguished the 
last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered how 
many attacks like Seamus’s he would have to endure 
before that time came. Page | 280Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 