AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS Life at the Burrow was as different as possible from 
life on Privet Drive. The Dursleys liked everything 
neat and ordered; the Weasleys’ house burst with the 
strange and unexpected. Harry got a shock the first 
time he looked in the mirror over the kitchen 
mantelpiece and it shouted, “ Tuck your shirt in, 
scruff yV’ The ghoul in the attic howled and dropped 
pipes whenever he felt things were getting too quiet, 
and small explosions from Fred and George’s 
bedroom were considered perfectly normal. What 
Harry found most unusual about life at Ron’s, 
however, wasn’t the talking mirror or the clanking 
ghoul: It was the fact that everybody there seemed to 
like him. Mrs. Weasley fussed over the state of his socks and 
tried to force him to eat fourth helpings at every meal. 
Mr. Weasley liked Harry to sit next to him at the 
dinner table so that he could bombard him with 
questions about life with Muggles, asking him to 
explain how things like plugs and the postal service 
worked. Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling “ Fascinating !” he would say as Harry talked him 
through using a telephone. “Ingenious, really, how 
many ways Muggles have found of getting along 
without magic.” Harry heard from Hogwarts one sunny morning about 
a week after he had arrived at the Burrow. He and 
Ron went down to breakfast to find Mr. and Mrs. 
Weasley and Ginny already sitting at the kitchen 
table. The moment she saw Harry, Ginny accidentally 
knocked her porridge bowl to the floor with a loud 
clatter. Ginny seemed very prone to knocking things 
over whenever Harry entered a room. She dived under 
the table to retrieve the bowl and emerged with her 
face glowing like the setting sun. Pretending he hadn’t 
noticed this, Harry sat down and took the toast Mrs. 
Weasley offered him. “Letters from school,” said Mr. Weasley, passing 
Harry and Ron identical envelopes of yellowish 
parchment, addressed in green ink. “Dumbledore 
already knows you’re here, Harry — doesn’t miss a 
trick, that man. You two’ve got them, too,” he added, 
as Fred and George ambled in, still in their pajamas. For a few minutes there was silence as they all read 
their letters. Harry’s told him to catch the Hogwarts 
Express as usual from King’s Cross station on 
September first. There was also a list of the new 
books he’d need for the coming year. SECOND-YEAR STUDENTS WILL REQUIRE: The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2 by Miranda 
Goshawk Break with a Banshee by Gilderoy Lockhart Gadding with Ghouls by Gilderoy Lockhart Page | 49 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 