BEAUXBATONS AND DRUMSTRANG Early next morning, Harry woke with a plan fully 
formed in his mind, as though his sleeping brain had 
been working on it all night. He got up, dressed in the 
pale dawn light, left the dormitory without waking 
Ron, and went back down to the deserted common 
room. Here he took a piece of parchment from the 
table upon which his Divination homework still lay 
and wrote the following letter: Dear Sirius, I reckon I just imagined my scar hurting, I was half 
asleep when I wrote to you last time. There’s no point 
coming back, everything’s fine here. Don’t worry about 
me, my head feels completely normal. Harry He then climbed out of the portrait hole, up through 
the silent castle (held up only briefly by Peeves, who 
tried to overturn a large vase on him halfway along Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling the fourth-floor corridor), finally arriving at the 
Owlery, which was situated at the top of West Tower. The Owlery was a circular stone room, rather cold 
and drafty, because none of the windows had glass in 
them. The floor was entirely covered in straw, owl 
droppings, and the regurgitated skeletons of mice and 
voles. Hundreds upon hundreds of owls of every 
breed imaginable were nestled here on perches that 
rose right up to the top of the tower, nearly all of 
them asleep, though here and there a round amber 
eye glared at Harry. He spotted Hedwig nestled 
between a barn owl and a tawny, and hurried over to 
her, sliding a little on the dropping-strewn floor. It took him a while to persuade her to wake up and 
then to look at him, as she kept shuffling around on 
her perch, showing him her tail. She was evidently 
still furious about his lack of gratitude the previous 
night. In the end, it was Harry suggesting she might 
be too tired, and that perhaps he would ask Ron to 
borrow Pigwidgeon, that made her stick out her leg 
and allow him to tie the letter to it. “Just find him, all right?” Harry said, stroking her 
back as he carried her on his arm to one of the holes 
in the wall. “Before the dementors do.” She nipped his finger, perhaps rather harder than she 
would ordinarily have done, but hooted softly in a 
reassuring sort of way all the same. Then she spread 
her wings and took off into the sunrise. Harry 
watched her fly out of sight with the familiar feeling of 
unease back in his stomach. He had been so sure 
that Sirius’s reply would alleviate his worries rather 
than increasing them. “That was a lie, Harry,” said Hermione sharply over 
breakfast, when he told her and Ron what he had Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling done. “You didn’t imagine your scar hurting and you 
know it.” “So what?” said Harry. “He’s not going back to 
Azkaban because of me.” “Drop it,” said Ron sharply to Hermione as she 
opened her mouth to argue some more, and for once, 
Hermione heeded him, and fell silent. Harry did his best not to worry about Sirius over the 
next couple of weeks. True, he could not stop himself 
from looking anxiously around every morning when 
the post owls arrived, nor, late at night before he went 
to sleep, prevent himself from seeing horrible visions 
of Sirius, cornered by dementors down some dark 
London street, but betweentimes he tried to keep his 
mind off his godfather. He wished he still had 
Quidditch to distract him; nothing worked so well on 
a troubled mind as a good, hard training session. On 
the other hand, their lessons were becoming more 
difficult and demanding than ever before, particularly 
Moody’s Defense Against the Dark Arts. To their surprise, Professor Moody had announced 
that he would be putting the Imperius Curse on each 
of them in turn, to demonstrate its power and to see 
whether they could resist its effects. “But — but you said it’s illegal, Professor,” said 
Hermione uncertainly as Moody cleared away the 
desks with a sweep of his wand, leaving a large clear 
space in the middle of the room. “You said — to use it 
against another human was — ” “Dumbledore wants you taught what it feels like,” 
said Moody, his magical eye swiveling onto Hermione 
and fixing her with an eerie, unblinking stare. “If 
you’d rather learn the hard way — when someone’s Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling putting it on you so they can control you completely 
— fine by me. You’re excused. Off you go.” He pointed one gnarled finger toward the door. 
Hermione went very pink and muttered something 
about not meaning that she wanted to leave. Harry 
and Ron grinned at each other. They knew Hermione 
would rather eat bubotuber pus than miss such an 
important lesson. Moody began to beckon students forward in turn and 
put the Imperius Curse upon them. Harry watched 
as, one by one, his classmates did the most 
extraordinary things under its influence. Dean 
Thomas hopped three times around the room, singing 
the national anthem. Lavender Brown imitated a 
squirrel. Neville performed a series of quite 
astonishing gymnastics he would certainly not have 
been capable of in his normal state. Not one of them 
seemed to be able to fight off the curse, and each of 
them recovered only when Moody had removed it. “Potter,” Moody growled, “you next.” Harry moved forward into the middle of the 
classroom, into the space that Moody had cleared of 
desks. Moody raised his wand, pointed it at Harry, 
and said, “Imperio\” It was the most wonderful feeling. Harry felt a floating 
sensation as every thought and worry in his head was 
wiped gently away, leaving nothing but a vague, 
untraceable happiness. He stood there feeling 
immensely relaxed, only dimly aware of everyone 
watching him. And then he heard Mad-Eye Moody’s voice, echoing in 
some distant chamber of his empty brain: Jump onto 
the desk . . . jump onto the desk. . . . Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Harry bent his knees obediently, preparing to spring. 
Jump onto the desk. ... Why, though? Another voice had awoken in the back 
of his brain. Stupid thing to do, really, said the voice. Jump onto the desk. ... No, I don’t think I will, thanks, said the other voice, a 
little more firmly ... no, I don’t really want to. ... Jump\ NOW The next thing Harry felt was considerable pain. He 
had both jumped and tried to prevent himself from 
jumping — the result was that he’d smashed 
headlong into the desk, knocking it over, and, by the 
feeling in his legs, fractured both his kneecaps. “Now, that’s more like it!” growled Moody’s voice, and 
suddenly, Harry felt the empty, echoing feeling in his 
head disappear. He remembered exactly what was 
happening, and the pain in his knees seemed to 
double. “Look at that, you lot ... Potter fought! He fought it, 
and he damn near beat it! We’ll try that again, Potter, 
and the rest of you, pay attention — watch his eyes, 
that’s where you see it — very good, Potter, very good 
indeed! They’ll have trouble controlling you!” “The way he talks,” Harry muttered as he hobbled out 
of the Defense Against the Dark Arts class an hour 
later (Moody had insisted on putting Harry through Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling his paces four times in a row, until Harry could throw 
off the curse entirely), “you’d think we were all going 
to be attacked any second.” “Yeah, I know,” said Ron, who was skipping on every 
alternate step. He had had much more difficulty with 
the curse than Harry, though Moody assured him the 
effects would wear off by lunch-time. “Talk about 
paranoid ...” Ron glanced nervously over his shoulder 
to check that Moody was definitely out of earshot and 
went on. “No wonder they were glad to get shot of him 
at the Ministry. Did you hear him telling Seamus 
what he did to that witch who shouted ‘Boo’ behind 
him on April Fools’ Day? And when are we supposed 
to read up on resisting the Imperius Curse with 
everything else we’ve got to do?” All the fourth years had noticed a definite increase in 
the amount of work they were required to do this 
term. Professor McGonagall explained why, when the 
class gave a particularly loud groan at the amount of 
Transfiguration homework she had assigned. “You are now entering a most important phase of your 
magical education!” she told them, her eyes glinting 
dangerously behind her square spectacles. “Your 
Ordinary Wizarding Levels are drawing closer — ” “We don’t take O.W.L.s till fifth year!” said Dean 
Thomas indignantly. “Maybe not, Thomas, but believe me, you need all the 
preparation you can get! Miss Granger remains the 
only person in this class who has managed to turn a 
hedgehog into a satisfactory pincushion. I might 
remind you that your pincushion, Thomas, still curls 
up in fright if anyone approaches it with a pin!” Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Hermione, who had turned rather pink again, seemed 
to be trying not to look too pleased with herself. Harry and Ron were deeply amused when Professor 
Trelawney told them that they had received top marks 
for their homework in their next Divination class. She 
read out large portions of their predictions, 
commending them for their unflinching acceptance of 
the horrors in store for them — but they were less 
amused when she asked them to do the same thing 
for the month after next; both of them were running 
out of ideas for catastrophes. Meanwhile Professor Binns, the ghost who taught 
History of Magic, had them writing weekly essays on 
the goblin rebellions of the eighteenth century. 
Professor Snape was forcing them to research 
antidotes. They took this one seriously, as he had 
hinted that he might be poisoning one of them before 
Christmas to see if their antidote worked. Professor 
Flitwick had asked them to read three extra books in 
preparation for their lesson on Summoning Charms. Even Hagrid was adding to their workload. The Blast- 
Ended Skrewts were growing at a remarkable pace 
given that nobody had yet discovered what they ate. 
Hagrid was delighted, and as part of their “project,” 
suggested that they come down to his hut on 
alternate evenings to observe the skrewts and make 
notes on their extraordinary behavior. “I will not,” said Draco Malfoy flatly when Hagrid had 
proposed this with the air of Father Christmas pulling 
an extra- large toy out of his sack. “I see enough of 
these foul things during lessons, thanks.” Hagrid ’s smile faded off his face. Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Yeh’ll do wha’yer told,” he growled, “or I’ll be takin’ a 
leaf outta Professor Moody’s book. ... I hear yeh made 
a good ferret, Malfoy.” The Gryffindors roared with laughter. Malfoy flushed 
with anger, but apparently the memory of Moody’s 
punishment was still sufficiently painful to stop him 
from retorting. Harry, Ron, and Hermione returned to 
the castle at the end of the lesson in high spirits; 
seeing Hagrid put down Malfoy was particularly 
satisfying, especially because Malfoy had done his 
very best to get Hagrid sacked the previous year. When they arrived in the entrance hall, they found 
themselves unable to proceed owing to the large 
crowd of students congregated there, all milling 
around a large sign that had been erected at the foot 
of the marble staircase. Ron, the tallest of the three, 
stood on tiptoe to see over the heads in front of them 
and read the sign aloud to the other two: TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT The delegations from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang 
will be arriving at 6 o’clock on Friday the 30th of 
October. Lessons will end half an hour early — “Brilliant!” said Harry. “It’s Potions last thing on 
Friday! Snape won’t have time to poison us all!” Students will return their bags and books to their 
dormitories and assemble in front of the castle to 
greet our guests before the Welcoming Feast. “Only a week away!” said Ernie Macmillan of 
Hufflepuff, emerging from the crowd, his eyes Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling gleaming. “I wonder if Cedric knows? Think 111 go and 
tell him. ...” “Cedric?” said Ron blankly as Ernie hurried off. “Diggory,” said Harry. “He must be entering the 
tournament.” “That idiot, Hogwarts champion?” said Ron as they 
pushed their way through the chattering crowd 
toward the staircase. “He’s not an idiot. You just don’t like him because he 
beat Gryffindor at Quidditch,” said Hermione. “I’ve 
heard he’s a really good student — and he’s a 
prefect.” She spoke as though this settled the matter. “You only like him because he’s handsome,” said Ron 
scathingly. “Excuse me, I don’t like people just because they’re 
handsome!” said Hermione indignantly. Ron gave a loud false cough, which sounded oddly 
like “Lockhart\” The appearance of the sign in the entrance hall had a 
marked effect upon the inhabitants of the castle. 
During the following week, there seemed to be only 
one topic of conversation, no matter where Harry 
went: the Triwizard Tournament. Rumors were flying 
from student to student like highly contagious germs: 
who was going to try for Hogwarts champion, what 
the tournament would involve, how the students from 
Beauxbatons and Durmstrang differed from 
themselves. Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Harry noticed too that the castle seemed to be 
undergoing an extra-thorough cleaning. Several grimy 
portraits had been scrubbed, much to the displeasure 
of their subjects, who sat huddled in their frames 
muttering darkly and wincing as they felt their raw 
pink faces. The suits of armor were suddenly 
gleaming and moving without squeaking, and Argus 
Filch, the caretaker, was behaving so ferociously to 
any students who forgot to wipe their shoes that he 
terrified a pair of first-year girls into hysterics. Other members of the staff seemed oddly tense too. “Longbottom, kindly do not reveal that you can’t even 
perform a simple Switching Spell in front of anyone 
from Durmstrang!” Professor McGonagall barked at 
the end of one particularly difficult lesson, during 
which Neville had accidentally transplanted his own 
ears onto a cactus. When they went down to breakfast on the morning of 
the thirtieth of October, they found that the Great 
Hall had been decorated overnight. Enormous silk 
banners hung from the walls, each of them 
representing a Hogwarts House: red with a gold lion 
for Gryffindor, blue with a bronze eagle for 
Ravenclaw, yellow with a black badger for Hufflepuff, 
and green with a silver serpent for Slytherin. Behind 
the teachers’ table, the largest banner of all bore the 
Hogwarts coat of arms: lion, eagle, badger, and snake 
united around a large letter H. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down beside Fred and 
George at the Gryffindor table. Once again, and most 
unusually, they were sitting apart from everyone else 
and conversing in low voices. Ron led the way over to 
them. Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “It’s a bummer, all right,” George was saying gloomily 
to Fred. “But if he won’t talk to us in person, we’ll 
have to send him the letter after all. Or we’ll stuff it 
into his hand. He can’t avoid us forever.” “Who’s avoiding you?” said Ron, sitting down next to 
them. “Wish you would,” said Fred, looking irritated at the 
interruption. “What’s a bummer?” Ron asked George. “Having a nosy git like you for a brother,” said George. “You two got any ideas on the Triwizard Tournament 
yet?” Harry asked. “Thought any more about trying to 
enter?” “I asked McGonagall how the champions are chosen 
but she wasn’t telling,” said George bitterly. “She just 
told me to shut up and get on with transfiguring my 
raccoon.” “Wonder what the tasks are going to be?” said Ron 
thoughtfully. “You know, I bet we could do them, 
Harry. We’ve done dangerous stuff before. ...” “Not in front of a panel of judges, you haven’t,” said 
Fred. “McGonagall says the champions get awarded 
points according to how well they’ve done the tasks.” “Who are the judges?” Harry asked. “Well, the Heads of the participating schools are 
always on the panel,” said Hermione, and everyone 
looked around at her, rather surprised, “because all 
three of them were injured during the Tournament of Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 1792, when a cockatrice the champions were 
supposed to be catching went on the rampage.” She noticed them all looking at her and said, with her 
usual air of impatience that nobody else had read all 
the books she had, “It’s all in Hogwarts, A History. 
Though, of course, that book’s not entirely reliable. A 
Revised History of Hogwarts would be a more 
accurate title. Or A Highly Biased and Selective 
History of Hogwarts, Which Glosses Over the Nastier 
Aspects of the School.” “What are you on about?” said Ron, though Harry 
thought he knew what was coming. “ House-elves\” said Hermione, her eyes flashing. “Not 
once, in over a thousand pages, does Hogwarts, A 
History mention that we are all colluding in the 
oppression of a hundred slaves!” Harry shook his head and applied himself to his 
scrambled eggs. His and Ron’s lack of enthusiasm 
had done nothing whatsoever to curb Hermione ’s 
determination to pursue justice for house-elves. True, 
both of them had paid two Sickles for a S.P.E.W. 
badge, but they had only done it to keep her quiet. 
Their Sickles had been wasted, however; if anything, 
they seemed to have made Hermione more vociferous. 
She had been badgering Harry and Ron ever since, 
first to wear the badges, then to persuade others to do 
the same, and she had also taken to rattling around 
the Gryffindor common room every evening, cornering 
people and shaking the collecting tin under their 
noses. “You do realize that your sheets are changed, your 
fires lit, your classrooms cleaned, and your food 
cooked by a group of magical creatures who are 
unpaid and enslaved?” she kept saying fiercely. Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Some people, like Neville, had paid up just to stop 
Hermione from glowering at them. A few seemed 
mildly interested in what she had to say, but were 
reluctant to take a more active role in campaigning. 
Many regarded the whole thing as a joke. Ron now rolled his eyes at the ceiling, which was 
flooding them all in autumn sunlight, and Fred 
became extremely interested in his bacon (both twins 
had refused to buy a S.P.E.W. badge). George, 
however, leaned in toward Hermione. “Listen, have you ever been down in the kitchens, 
Hermione?” “No, of course not,” said Hermione curtly, “I hardly 
think students are supposed to — ” “Well, we have,” said George, indicating Fred, “loads 
of times, to nick food. And we’ve met them, and 
they’re happy. They think they’ve got the best job in 
the world — ” “That’s because they’re uneducated and 
brainwashed!” Hermione began hotly, but her next 
few words were drowned out by the sudden 
whooshing noise from overhead, which announced 
the arrival of the post owls. Harry looked up at once, 
and saw Hedwig soaring toward him. Hermione 
stopped talking abruptly; she and Ron watched 
Hedwig anxiously as she fluttered down onto Harry’s 
shoulder, folded her wings, and held out her leg 
wearily. Harry pulled off Sirius’s reply and offered Hedwig his 
bacon rinds, which she ate gratefully. Then, checking 
that Fred and George were safely immersed in further 
discussions about the Tri-wizard Tournament, Harry Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling read out Sirius’s letter in a whisper to Ron and 
Hermione. Nice try, Harry. I’m back in the country and well hidden. I want you to 
keep me posted on everything that’s going on at 
Hog warts. Don’t use Hedwig, keep changing owls, and 
don’t worry about me, just watch out for yourself. Don’t 
forget what I said about your scar. Sirius “Why d’you have to keep changing owls?” Ron asked 
in a low voice. “Hedwig’ll attract too much attention,” said Hermione 
at once. “She stands out. A snowy owl that keeps 
returning to wherever he’s hiding ... I mean, they’re 
not native birds, are they?” Harry rolled up the letter and slipped it inside his 
robes, wondering whether he felt more or less worried 
than before. He supposed that Sirius managing to get 
back without being caught was something. He 
couldn’t deny either that the idea that Sirius was 
much nearer was reassuring; at least he wouldn’t 
have to wait so long for a response every time he 
wrote. “Thanks, Hedwig,” he said, stroking her. She hooted 
sleepily, dipped her beak briefly into his goblet of 
orange juice, then took off again, clearly desperate for 
a good long sleep in the Owlery. There was a pleasant feeling of anticipation in the air 
that day. Nobody was very attentive in lessons, being 
much more interested in the arrival that evening of 
the people from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang; even Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Potions was more bearable than usual, as it was half 
an hour shorter. When the bell rang early, Harry, Ron, and Hermione hurried up to Gryffindor Tower, 
deposited their bags and books as they had been 
instructed, pulled on their cloaks, and rushed back 
downstairs into the entrance hall. The Heads of Houses were ordering their students 
into lines. “Weasley, straighten your hat,” Professor McGonagall 
snapped at Ron. “Miss Patil, take that ridiculous 
thing out of your hair.” Parvati scowled and removed a large ornamental 
butterfly from the end of her plait. “Follow me, please,” said Professor McGonagall. “First 
years in front ... no pushing. ...” They filed down the steps and lined up in front of the 
castle. It was a cold, clear evening; dusk was falling 
and a pale, transparent-looking moon was already 
shining over the Forbidden Forest. Harry, standing 
between Ron and Hermione in the fourth row from 
the front, saw Dennis Creevey positively shivering 
with anticipation among the other first years. “Nearly six,” said Ron, checking his watch and then 
staring down the drive that led to the front gates. 
“How d’you reckon they’re coming? The train?” “I doubt it,” said Hermione. “How, then? Broomsticks?” Harry suggested, looking 
up at the starry sky. “I don’t think so ... not from that far away. ...” Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “A Portkey?” Ron suggested. “Or they could Apparate 
— maybe you’re allowed to do it under seventeen 
wherever they come from?” “You can’t Apparate inside the Hogwarts grounds, 
how often do I have to tell you?” said Hermione 
impatiently. They scanned the darkening grounds excitedly, but 
nothing was moving; everything was still, silent, and 
quite as usual. Harry was starting to feel cold. He 
wished they’d hurry up. ... Maybe the foreign 
students were preparing a dramatic entrance. ... He 
remembered what Mr. Weasley had said back at the 
campsite before the Quidditch World Cup: “always the 
same — we can’t resist showing off when we get 
together. ...” And then Dumbledore called out from the back row 
where he stood with the other teachers — “Aha! Unless I am very much mistaken, the delegation 
from Beauxbatons approaches!” “Where?” said many students eagerly, all looking in 
different directions. “There!” yelled a sixth year, pointing over the forest. Something large, much larger than a broomstick — 
or, indeed, a hundred broomsticks — was hurtling 
across the deep blue sky toward the castle, growing 
larger all the time. “It’s a dragon!” shrieked one of the first years, losing 
her head completely. “Don’t be stupid ... it’s a flying house!” said Dennis 
Creevey. Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Dennis’s guess was closer. ... As the gigantic black 
shape skimmed over the treetops of the Forbidden 
Forest and the lights shining from the castle windows 
hit it, they saw a gigantic, powder-blue, horse-drawn 
carriage, the size of a large house, soaring toward 
them, pulled through the air by a dozen winged 
horses, all palominos, and each the size of an 
elephant. The front three rows of students drew backward as 
the carriage hurtled ever lower, coming in to land at a 
tremendous speed — then, with an almighty crash 
that made Neville jump backward onto a Slytherin 
fifth year’s foot, the horses’ hooves, larger than dinner 
plates, hit the ground. A second later, the carriage 
landed too, bouncing upon its vast wheels, while the 
golden horses tossed their enormous heads and rolled 
large, fiery red eyes. Harry just had time to see that the door of the 
carriage bore a coat of arms (two crossed, golden 
wands, each emitting three stars) before it opened. A boy in pale blue robes jumped down from the 
carriage, bent forward, fumbled for a moment with 
something on the carriage floor, and unfolded a set of 
golden steps. He sprang back respectfully. Then 
Harry saw a shining, high-heeled black shoe emerging 
from the inside of the carriage — a shoe the size of a 
child’s sled — followed, almost immediately, by the 
largest woman he had ever seen in his life. The size of 
the carriage, and of the horses, was immediately 
explained. A few people gasped. Harry had only ever seen one person as large as this 
woman in his life, and that was Hagrid; he doubted 
whether there was an inch difference in their heights. 
Yet somehow — maybe simply because he was used 
to Hagrid — this woman (now at the foot of the steps, 
Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling and looking around at the waiting, wide-eyed crowd) 
seemed even more unnaturally large. As she stepped 
into the light flooding from the entrance hall, she was 
revealed to have a handsome, olive-skinned face; 
large, black, liquid-looking eyes; and a rather beaky 
nose. Her hair was drawn back in a shining knob at 
the base of her neck. She was dressed from head to 
foot in black satin, and many magnificent opals 
gleamed at her throat and on her thick fingers. Dumbledore started to clap; the students, following 
his lead, broke into applause too, many of them 
standing on tiptoe, the better to look at this woman. Her face relaxed into a gracious smile and she walked 
forward toward Dumbledore, extending a glittering 
hand. Dumbledore, though tall himself, had barely to 
bend to kiss it. “My dear Madame Maxime,” he said. “Welcome to 
Hogwarts.” “Dumbly-dorr,” said Madame Maxime in a deep voice. 
“I ’ope I find you well?” “In excellent form, I thank you,” said Dumbledore. “My pupils,” said Madame Maxime, waving one of her 
enormous hands carelessly behind her. Harry, whose attention had been focused completely 
upon Madame Maxime, now noticed that about a 
dozen boys and girls, all, by the look of them, in their 
late teens, had emerged from the carriage and were 
now standing behind Madame Maxime. They were 
shivering, which was unsurprising, given that their 
robes seemed to be made of fine silk, and none of 
them were wearing cloaks. A few had wrapped scarves 
and shawls around their heads. From what Harry 
Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling could see of them (they were standing in Madame 
Maxime ’s enormous shadow), they were staring up at 
Hogwarts with apprehensive looks on their faces. “ ’As Karkaroff arrived yet?” Madame Maxime asked. “He should be here any moment,” said Dumbledore. 
“Would you like to wait here and greet him or would 
you prefer to step inside and warm up a trifle?” “Warm up, I think,” said Madame Maxime. “But ze 
’orses — ” “Our Care of Magical Creatures teacher will be 
delighted to take care of them,” said Dumbledore, “the 
moment he has returned from dealing with a slight 
situation that has arisen with some of his other — er 
— charges.” “Skrewts,” Ron muttered to Harry, grinning. “My steeds require — er — forceful ’andling,” said 
Madame Maxime, looking as though she doubted 
whether any Care of Magical Creatures teacher at 
Hogwarts could be up to the job. “Zey are very strong. “I assure you that Hagrid will be well up to the job,” 
said Dumbledore, smiling. “Very well,” said Madame Maxime, bowing slightly. 
“Will you please inform zis ’Agrid zat ze ’orses drink 
only single-malt whiskey?” “It will be attended to,” said Dumbledore, also bowing. “Come,” said Madame Maxime imperiously to her 
students, and the Hogwarts crowd parted to allow her 
and her students to pass up the stone steps. Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “How big d’you reckon Durmstrang’s horses are going 
to be?” Seamus Finnigan said, leaning around 
Lavender and Parvati to address Harry and Ron. “Well, if they’re any bigger than this lot, even Hagrid 
won’t be able to handle them,” said Harry. “That’s if 
he hasn’t been attacked by his skrewts. Wonder 
what’s up with them?” “Maybe they’ve escaped,” said Ron hopefully. “Oh don’t say that,” said Hermione with a shudder. 
“Imagine that lot loose on the grounds. ...” They stood, shivering slightly now, waiting for the 
Durmstrang party to arrive. Most people were gazing 
hopefully up at the sky. For a few minutes, the 
silence was broken only by Madame Maxime’s huge 
horses snorting and stamping. But then — “Can you hear something?” said Ron suddenly. Harry listened; a loud and oddly eerie noise was 
drifting toward them from out of the darkness: a 
muffled rumbling and sucking sound, as though an 
immense vacuum cleaner were moving along a 
riverbed. ... “The lake!” yelled Lee Jordan, pointing down at it. 
“Look at the lake!” From their position at the top of the lawns 
overlooking the grounds, they had a clear view of the 
smooth black surface of the water — except that the 
surface was suddenly not smooth at all. Some 
disturbance was taking place deep in the center; great 
bubbles were forming on the surface, waves were now 
washing over the muddy banks — and then, out in 
the very middle of the lake, a whirlpool appeared, as if 
Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling a giant plug had just been pulled out of the lake’s 
floor. ... What seemed to be a long, black pole began to rise 
slowly out of the heart of the whirlpool . . . and then 
Harry saw the rigging. . . . “It’s a mast!” he said to Ron and Hermione. Slowly, magnificently, the ship rose out of the water, 
gleaming in the moonlight. It had a strangely skeletal 
look about it, as though it were a resurrected wreck, 
and the dim, misty lights shimmering at its portholes 
looked like ghostly eyes. Finally, with a great sloshing 
noise, the ship emerged entirely, bobbing on the 
turbulent water, and began to glide toward the bank. 
A few moments later, they heard the splash of an 
anchor being thrown down in the shallows, and the 
thud of a plank being lowered onto the bank. People were disembarking; they could see their 
silhouettes passing the lights in the ship’s portholes. 
All of them, Harry noticed, seemed to be built along 
the lines of Crabbe and Goyle . . . but then, as they 
drew nearer, walking up the lawns into the light 
streaming from the entrance hall, he saw that their 
bulk was really due to the fact that they were wearing 
cloaks of some kind of shaggy, matted fur. But the 
man who was leading them up to the castle was 
wearing furs of a different sort: sleek and silver, like 
his hair. “Dumbledore!” he called heartily as he walked up the 
slope. “How are you, my dear fellow, how are you?” “Blooming, thank you, Professor Karkaroff,” 
Dumbledore replied. Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Karkaroff had a fruity, unctuous voice; when he 
stepped into the light pouring from the front doors of 
the castle they saw that he was tall and thin like 
Dumbledore, but his white hair was short, and his 
goatee (finishing in a small curl) did not entirely hide 
his rather weak chin. When he reached Dumbledore, 
he shook hands with both of his own. “Dear old Hogwarts,” he said, looking up at the castle 
and smiling; his teeth were rather yellow, and Harry 
noticed that his smile did not extend to his eyes, 
which remained cold and shrewd. “How good it is to 
be here, how good. ... Viktor, come along, into the 
warmth ... you don’t mind, Dumbledore? Viktor has a 
slight head cold. ...” Karkaroff beckoned forward one of his students. As 
the boy passed, Harry caught a glimpse of a 
prominent curved nose and thick black eyebrows. He 
didn’t need the punch on the arm Ron gave him, or 
the hiss in his ear, to recognize that profile. “Harry — it’s Krum\” Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling t'fyfflapier- l6 THE GOBLET OF FIRE “I don’t believe it!” Ron said, in a stunned voice, as 
the Hogwarts students filed back up the steps behind 
the party from Durmstrang. “Krum, Harry! Viktor 
Kruml” “For heaven’s sake, Ron, he’s only a Quidditch 
player,” said Hermione. “Only a Quidditch player?” Ron said, looking at her as 
though he couldn’t believe his ears. “Hermione — he’s 
one of the best Seekers in the world! I had no idea he 
was still at school!” As they recrossed the entrance hall with the rest of 
the Hogwarts students heading for the Great Hall, 
Harry saw Lee Jordan jumping up and down on the 
soles of his feet to get a better look at the back of 
Krum’s head. Several sixth-year girls were frantically 
searching their pockets as they walked — “Oh I don’t believe it, I haven’t got a single quill on me ?? Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “D’you think he’d sign my hat in lipstick?” “Really,” Hermione said loftily as they passed the 
girls, now squabbling over the lipstick. “I’m getting his autograph if I can,” said Ron. “You 
haven’t got a quill, have you, Harry?” “Nope, they’re upstairs in my bag,” said Harry. They walked over to the Gryffindor table and sat 
down. Ron took care to sit on the side facing the 
doorway, because Krum and his fellow Durmstrang 
students were still gathered around it, apparently 
unsure about where they should sit. The students 
from Beauxbatons had chosen seats at the Ravenclaw 
table. They were looking around the Great Hall with 
glum expressions on their faces. Three of them were 
still clutching scarves and shawls around their heads. “It’s not that cold,” said Hermione defensively. “Why 
didn’t they bring cloaks?” “Over here! Come and sit over here!” Ron hissed. “Over here! Hermione, budge up, make a space — ” “What?” “Too late,” said Ron bitterly. Viktor Krum and his fellow Durmstrang students had 
settled themselves at the Slytherin table. Harry could 
see Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle looking very smug 
about this. As he watched, Malfoy bent forward to 
speak to Krum. “Yeah, that’s right, smarm up to him, Malfoy,” said 
Ron scathingly. “I bet Krum can see right through 
him, though ... bet he gets people fawning over him Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling all the time. ... Where d’you reckon they’re going to 
sleep? We could offer him a space in our dormitory, 
Harry ... I wouldn’t mind giving him my bed, I could 
kip on a camp bed.” Hermione snorted. “They look a lot happier than the Beauxbatons lot,” 
said Harry. The Durmstrang students were pulling off their heavy 
furs and looking up at the starry black ceiling with 
expressions of interest; a couple of them were picking 
up the golden plates and goblets and examining 
them, apparently impressed. Up at the staff table, Filch, the caretaker, was adding 
chairs. He was wearing his moldy old tailcoat in 
honor of the occasion. Harry was surprised to see 
that he added four chairs, two on either side of 
Dumbledore’s. “But there are only two extra people,” Harry said. 
“Why’s Filch putting out four chairs, who else is 
coming?” “Eh?” said Ron vaguely. He was still staring avidly at 
Krum. When all the students had entered the Hall and 
settled down at their House tables, the staff entered, 
filing up to the top table and taking their seats. Last 
in line were Professor Dumbledore, Professor 
Karkaroff, and Madame Maxime. When their 
headmistress appeared, the pupils from Beauxbatons 
leapt to their feet. A few of the Hogwarts students 
laughed. The Beauxbatons party appeared quite 
unembarrassed, however, and did not resume their 
seats until Madame Maxime had sat down on 
Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Dumbledore ’s left-hand side. Dumbledore remained 
standing, and a silence fell over the Great Hall. “Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ghosts and — 
most particularly — guests,” said Dumbledore, 
beaming around at the foreign students. “I have great 
pleasure in welcoming you all to Hogwarts. I hope and 
trust that your stay here will be both comfortable and 
enjoyable.” One of the Beauxbatons girls still clutching a muffler 
around her head gave what was unmistakably a 
derisive laugh. “No one’s making you stay!” Hermione whispered, 
bristling at her. “The tournament will be officially opened at the end of 
the feast,” said Dumbledore. “I now invite you all to 
eat, drink, and make yourselves at home!” He sat down, and Harry saw Karkaroff lean forward at 
once and engage him in conversation. The plates in front of them filled with food as usual. 
The house-elves in the kitchen seemed to have pulled 
out all the stops; there was a greater variety of dishes 
in front of them than Harry had ever seen, including 
several that were definitely foreign. “What’s that?” said Ron, pointing at a large dish of 
some sort of shellfish stew that stood beside a large 
steak-and-kidney pudding. “Bouillabaisse,” said Hermione. “Bless you,” said Ron. Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “It’s French,” said Hermione, “I had it on holiday 
summer before last. It’s very nice.” “I’ll take your word for it,” said Ron, helping himself 
to black pudding. The Great Hall seemed somehow much more crowded 
than usual, even though there were barely twenty 
additional students there; perhaps it was because 
their differently colored uniforms stood out so clearly 
against the black of the Hogwarts’ robes. Now that 
they had removed their furs, the Durmstrang 
students were revealed to be wearing robes of a deep 
bloodred. Hagrid sidled into the Hall through a door behind the 
staff table twenty minutes after the start of the feast. 
He slid into his seat at the end and waved at Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione with a very heavily bandaged 
hand. “Skrewts doing all right, Hagrid?” Harry called. “Thrivin’,” Hagrid called back happily. “Yeah, I’ll just bet they are,” said Ron quietly. “Looks 
like they’ve finally found a food they like, doesn’t it? 
Hagrid ’s fingers.” At that moment, a voice said, “Excuse me, are you 
wanting ze bouillabaisse?” It was the girl from Beauxbatons who had laughed 
during Dumbledore’s speech. She had finally removed 
her muffler. A long sheet of silvery-blonde hair fell 
almost to her waist. She had large, deep blue eyes, 
and very white, even teeth. Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Ron went purple. He stared up at her, opened his 
mouth to reply, but nothing came out except a faint 
gurgling noise. “Yeah, have it,” said Harry, pushing the dish toward 
the girl. “You ’ave finished wiz it?” “Yeah,” Ron said breathlessly. “Yeah, it was 
excellent.” The girl picked up the dish and carried it carefully off 
to the Ravenclaw table. Ron was still goggling at the 
girl as though he had never seen one before. Harry 
started to laugh. The sound seemed to jog Ron back 
to his senses. “She’s a veelcd” he said hoarsely to Harry. “Of course she isn’t!” said Hermione tartly. “I don’t see 
anyone else gaping at her like an idiot!” But she wasn’t entirely right about that. As the girl 
crossed the Hall, many boys’ heads turned, and some 
of them seemed to have become temporarily 
speechless, just like Ron. “I’m telling you, that’s not a normal girl!” said Ron, 
leaning sideways so he could keep a clear view of her. 
“They don’t make them like that at Hogwarts!” “They make them okay at Hogwarts,” said Harry 
without thinking. Cho happened to be sitting only a 
few places away from the girl with the silvery hair. “When you’ve both put your eyes back in,” said 
Hermione briskly, “you’ll be able to see who’s just 
arrived.” Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling She was pointing up at the staff table. The two 
remaining empty seats had just been filled. Ludo 
Bagman was now sitting on Professor Karkaroff’s 
other side, while Mr. Crouch, Percy’s boss, was next 
to Madame Maxime. “What are they doing here?” said Harry in surprise. “They organized the Triwizard Tournament, didn’t 
they?” said Hermione. “I suppose they wanted to be 
here to see it start.” When the second course arrived they noticed a 
number of unfamiliar desserts too. Ron examined an 
odd sort of pale blancmange closely, then moved it 
carefully a few inches to his right, so that it would be 
clearly visible from the Ravenclaw table. The girl who 
looked like a veela appeared to have eaten enough, 
however, and did not come over to get it. Once the golden plates had been wiped clean, 
Dumbledore stood up again. A pleasant sort of 
tension seemed to fill the Hall now. Harry felt a slight 
thrill of excitement, wondering what was coming. 
Several seats down from them, Fred and George were 
leaning forward, staring at Dumbledore with great 
concentration. “The moment has come,” said Dumbledore, smiling 
around at the sea of upturned faces. “The Triwizard 
Tournament is about to start. I would like to say a few 
words of explanation before we bring in the casket — ” “The what?” Harry muttered. Ron shrugged. “ — just to clarify the procedure that we will be 
following this year. But first, let me introduce, for Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling those who do not know them, Mr. Bartemius Crouch, 
Head of the Department of International Magical 
Cooperation” — there was a smattering of polite 
applause — “and Mr. Ludo Bagman, Head of the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports.” There was a much louder round of applause for 
Bagman than for Crouch, perhaps because of his 
fame as a Beater, or simply because he looked so 
much more likable. He acknowledged it with a jovial 
wave of his hand. Bartemius Crouch did not smile or 
wave when his name was announced. Remembering 
him in his neat suit at the Quidditch World Cup, 
Harry thought he looked strange in wizard’s robes. His toothbrush mustache and severe parting looked 
very odd next to Dumbledore’s long white hair and 
beard. “Mr. Bagman and Mr. Crouch have worked tirelessly 
over the last few months on the arrangements for the 
Triwizard Tournament,” Dumbledore continued, “and 
they will be joining myself, Professor Karkaroff, and 
Madame Maxime on the panel that will judge the 
champions’ efforts.” At the mention of the word “champions,” the 
attentiveness of the listening students seemed to 
sharpen. Perhaps Dumbledore had noticed their 
sudden stillness, for he smiled as he said, “The 
casket, then, if you please, Mr. Filch.” Filch, who had been lurking unnoticed in a far corner 
of the Hall, now approached Dumbledore carrying a 
great wooden chest encrusted with jewels. It looked 
extremely old. A murmur of excited interest rose from 
the watching students; Dennis Creevey actually stood 
on his chair to see it properly, but, being so tiny, his 
head hardly rose above anyone else’s. Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “The instructions for the tasks the champions will 
face this year have already been examined by Mr. 
Crouch and Mr. Bagman,” said Dumbledore as Filch 
placed the chest carefully on the table before him, “and they have made the necessary arrangements for 
each challenge. There will be three tasks, spaced 
throughout the school year, and they will test the 
champions in many different ways . . . their magical 
prowess — their daring — their powers of deduction 
— and, of course, their ability to cope with danger.” At this last word, the Hall was filled with a silence so 
absolute that nobody seemed to be breathing. “As you know, three champions compete in the 
tournament,” Dumbledore went on calmly, “one from 
each of the participating schools. They will be marked 
on how well they perform each of the Tournament 
tasks and the champion with the highest total after 
task three will win the Triwizard Cup. The champions 
will be chosen by an impartial selector: the Goblet of 
Fire.” Dumbledore now took out his wand and tapped three 
times upon the top of the casket. The lid creaked 
slowly open. Dumbledore reached inside it and pulled 
out a large, roughly hewn wooden cup. It would have 
been entirely unremarkable had it not been full to the 
brim with dancing blue-white flames. Dumbledore closed the casket and placed the goblet 
carefully on top of it, where it would be clearly visible 
to everyone in the Hall. “Anybody wishing to submit themselves as champion 
must write their name and school clearly upon a slip 
of parchment and drop it into the goblet,” said 
Dumbledore. “Aspiring champions have twenty-four 
hours in which to put their names forward. Tomorrow 
Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling night, Halloween, the goblet will return the names of 
the three it has judged most worthy to represent their 
schools. The goblet will be placed in the entrance hall 
tonight, where it will be freely accessible to all those 
wishing to compete. “To ensure that no underage student yields to 
temptation,” said Dumbledore, “I will be drawing an 
Age Line around the Goblet of Fire once it has been 
placed in the entrance hall. Nobody under the age of 
seventeen will be able to cross this line. “Finally, I wish to impress upon any of you wishing to 
compete that this tournament is not to be entered 
into lightly. Once a champion has been selected by 
the Goblet of Fire, he or she is obliged to see the 
tournament through to the end. The placing of your 
name in the goblet constitutes a binding, magical 
contract. There can be no change of heart once you 
have become a champion. Please be very sure, 
therefore, that you are wholeheartedly prepared to 
play before you drop your name into the goblet. Now, I think it is time for bed. Good night to you all.” “An Age Line!” Fred Weasley said, his eyes glinting, as 
they all made their way across the Hall to the doors 
into the entrance hall. “Well, that should be fooled by 
an Aging Potion, shouldn’t it? And once your name’s 
in that goblet, you’re laughing — it can’t tell whether 
you’re seventeen or not!” “But I don’t think anyone under seventeen will stand 
a chance,” said Hermione, “we just haven’t learned 
enough ...” “Speak for yourself,” said George shortly. “You’ll try 
and get in, won’t you, Harry?” Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Harry thought briefly of Dumbledore ’s insistence that 
nobody under seventeen should submit their name, 
but then the wonderful picture of himself winning the 
Triwizard Tournament filled his mind again. ... He 
wondered how angry Dumbledore would be if 
someone younger than seventeen did find a way to get 
over the Age Line. ... “Where is he?” said Ron, who wasn’t listening to a 
word of this conversation, but looking through the 
crowd to see what had become of Krum. “Dumbledore 
didn’t say where the Durmstrang people are sleeping, 
did he?” But this query was answered almost instantly; they 
were level with the Slytherin table now, and Karkaroff 
had just bustled up to his students. “Back to the ship, then,” he was saying. “Viktor, how 
are you feeling? Did you eat enough? Should I send 
for some mulled wine from the kitchens?” Harry saw Krum shake his head as he pulled his furs 
back on. “Professor, I vood like some vine,” said one of the 
other Durmstrang boys hopefully. “I wasn’t offering it to you, Poliakoff,” snapped 
Karkaroff, his warmly paternal air vanishing in an 
instant. “I notice you have dribbled food all down the 
front of your robes again, disgusting boy — ” Karkaroff turned and led his students toward the 
doors, reaching them at exactly the same moment as 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione. Harry stopped to let him 
walk through first. Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Thank you,” said Karkaroff carelessly, glancing at 
him. And then Karkaroff froze. He turned his head back to 
Harry and stared at him as though he couldn’t believe 
his eyes. Behind their headmaster, the students from 
Durmstrang came to a halt too. Karkaroff s eyes 
moved slowly up Harry’s face and fixed upon his scar. 
The Durmstrang students were staring curiously at 
Harry too. Out of the corner of his eye, Harry saw 
comprehension dawn on a few of their faces. The boy 
with food all down his front nudged the girl next to 
him and pointed openly at Harry’s forehead. “Yeah, that’s Harry Potter,” said a growling voice from 
behind them. Professor Karkaroff spun around. Mad-Eye Moody 
was standing there, leaning heavily on his staff, his 
magical eye glaring unblinkingly at the Durmstrang 
headmaster. The color drained from Karkaroff’s face as Harry 
watched. A terrible look of mingled fury and fear came 
over him. “You!” he said, staring at Moody as though unsure he 
was really seeing him. “Me,” said Moody grimly. “And unless you’ve got 
anything to say to Potter, Karkaroff, you might want 
to move. You’re blocking the doorway.” It was true; half the students in the Hall were now 
waiting behind them, looking over one another’s 
shoulders to see what was causing the holdup. Without another word, Professor Karkaroff swept his 
students away with him. Moody watched him until he Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling was out of sight, his magical eye fixed upon his back, 
a look of intense dislike upon his mutilated face. As the next day was Saturday, most students would 
normally have breakfasted late. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione, however, were not alone in rising much 
earlier than they usually did on weekends. When they 
went down into the entrance hall, they saw about 
twenty people milling around it, some of them eating 
toast, all examining the Goblet of Fire. It had been 
placed in the center of the hall on the stool that 
normally bore the Sorting Hat. A thin golden line had 
been traced on the floor, forming a circle ten feet 
around it in every direction. “Anyone put their name in yet?” Ron asked a third- 
year girl eagerly. “All the Durmstrang lot,” she replied. “But I haven’t 
seen anyone from Hogwarts yet.” “Bet some of them put it in last night after we’d all 
gone to bed,” said Harry. “I would’ve if it had been me 
... wouldn’t have wanted everyone watching. What if 
the goblet just gobbed you right back out again?” Someone laughed behind Harry. Turning, he saw 
Fred, George, and Lee Jordan hurrying down the 
staircase, all three of them looking extremely excited. “Done it,” Fred said in a triumphant whisper to Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione. “Just taken it.” “What?” said Ron. “The Aging Potion, dung brains,” said Fred. Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “One drop each,” said George, rubbing his hands 
together with glee. “We only need to be a few months 
older.” “We’re going to split the thousand Galleons between 
the three of us if one of us wins,” said Lee, grinning 
broadly. “I’m not sure this is going to work, you know,” said 
Hermione warningly “I’m sure Dumbledore will have 
thought of this.” Fred, George, and Lee ignored her. “Ready?” Fred said to the other two, quivering with 
excitement. “C’mon, then — I’ll go first — ” Harry watched, fascinated, as Fred pulled a slip of 
parchment out of his pocket bearing the words Fred 
Weasley — Hog warts. Fred walked right up to the 
edge of the line and stood there, rocking on his toes 
like a diver preparing for a fifty-foot drop. Then, with 
the eyes of every person in the entrance hall upon 
him, he took a great breath and stepped over the line. For a split second Harry thought it had worked — 
George certainly thought so, for he let out a yell of 
triumph and leapt after Fred — but next moment, 
there was a loud sizzling sound, and both twins were 
hurled out of the golden circle as though they had 
been thrown by an invisible shot-putter. They landed 
painfully, ten feet away on the cold stone floor, and to 
add insult to injury, there was a loud popping noise, 
and both of them sprouted identical long white 
beards. The entrance hall rang with laughter. Even Fred and 
George joined in, once they had gotten to their feet 
and taken a good look at each other’s beards. Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “I did warn you,” said a deep, amused voice, and 
everyone turned to see Professor Dumbledore coming 
out of the Great Hall. He surveyed Fred and George, 
his eyes twinkling. “I suggest you both go up to 
Madam Pomfrey. She is already tending to Miss 
Fawcett, of Ravenclaw, and Mr. Summers, of 
Hufflepuff, both of whom decided to age themselves 
up a little too. Though I must say, neither of their 
beards is anything like as fine as yours.” Fred and George set off for the hospital wing, 
accompanied by Lee, who was howling with laughter, 
and Harry, Ron, and Hermione, also chortling, went 
in to breakfast. The decorations in the Great Hall had changed this 
morning. As it was Halloween, a cloud of live bats was 
fluttering around the enchanted ceiling, while 
hundreds of carved pumpkins leered from every 
corner. Harry led the way over to Dean and Seamus, 
who were discussing those Hogwarts students of 
seventeen or over who might be entering. “There’s a rumor going around that Warrington got up 
early and put his name in,” Dean told Harry. “That 
big bloke from Slytherin who looks like a sloth.” Harry, who had played Quidditch against Warrington, 
shook his head in disgust. “We can’t have a Slytherin champion!” “And all the Hufflepuffs are talking about Diggory,” 
said Seamus contemptuously. “But I wouldn’t have 
thought he’d have wanted to risk his good looks.” “Listen!” said Hermione suddenly. Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling People were cheering out in the entrance hall. They all 
swiveled around in their seats and saw Angelina 
Johnson coming into the Hall, grinning in an 
embarrassed sort of way. A tall black girl who played 
Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team, Angelina 
came over to them, sat down, and said, “Well, I’ve 
done it! Just put my name in!” “You’re kidding!” said Ron, looking impressed. “Are you seventeen, then?” asked Harry. “ ’Course she is, can’t see a beard, can you?” said 
Ron. “I had my birthday last week,” said Angelina. “Well, I’m glad someone from Gryffindor’s entering,” 
said Hermione. “I really hope you get it, Angelina!” “Thanks, Hermione,” said Angelina, smiling at her. “Yeah, better you than Pretty-Boy Diggory,” said 
Seamus, causing several Hufflepuffs passing their 
table to scowl heavily at him. “What’re we going to do today, then?” Ron asked 
Harry and Hermione when they had finished 
breakfast and were leaving the Great Hall. “We haven’t been down to visit Hagrid yet,” said 
Harry. “Okay,” said Ron, “just as long as he doesn’t ask us to 
donate a few fingers to the skrewts.” A look of great excitement suddenly dawned on 
Hermione ’s face. Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “I’ve just realized — I haven’t asked Hagrid to join 
S.P.E.W. yet!” she said brightly. “Wait for me, will 
you, while I nip upstairs and get the badges?” “What is it with her?” said Ron, exasperated, as 
Hermione ran away up the marble staircase. “Hey, Ron,” said Harry suddenly. “It’s your friend ...” The students from Beauxbatons were coming through 
the front doors from the grounds, among them, the 
veela-girl. Those gathered around the Goblet of Fire 
stood back to let them pass, watching eagerly. Madame Maxime entered the hall behind her students 
and organized them into a line. One by one, the 
Beauxbatons students stepped across the Age Line 
and dropped their slips of parchment into the blue- 
white flames. As each name entered the fire, it turned 
briefly red and emitted sparks. “What d’you reckon’ll happen to the ones who aren’t 
chosen?” Ron muttered to Harry as the veela-girl 
dropped her parchment into the Goblet of Fire. 
“Reckon they’ll go back to school, or hang around to 
watch the tournament?” “Dunno,” said Harry. “Hang around, I suppose. ... 
Madame Maxime’s staying to judge, isn’t she?” When all the Beauxbatons students had submitted 
their names, Madame Maxime led them back out of 
the hall and out onto the grounds again. “Where are they sleeping, then?” said Ron, moving 
toward the front doors and staring after them. Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling A loud rattling noise behind them announced 
Hermione’s reappearance with the box of S.P.E.W. 
badges. “Oh good, hurry up,” said Ron, and he jumped down 
the stone steps, keeping his eyes on the back of the 
veela-girl, who was now halfway across the lawn with 
Madame Maxime. As they neared Hagrid’s cabin on the edge of the 
Forbidden Forest, the mystery of the Beauxbatons’ 
sleeping quarters was solved. The gigantic powder- 
blue carriage in which they had arrived had been 
parked two hundred yards from Hagrid’s front door, 
and the students were climbing back inside it. The 
elephantine flying horses that had pulled the carriage 
were now grazing in a makeshift paddock alongside it. Harry knocked on Hagrid’s door, and Fang’s booming 
barks answered instantly “ ’Bout time!” said Hagrid, when he’d flung open the 
door. “Thought you lot’d forgotten where I live!” “We’ve been really busy, Hag — ” Hermione started to 
say, but then she stopped dead, looking up at Hagrid, 
apparently lost for words. Hagrid was wearing his best (and very horrible) hairy 
brown suit, plus a checked yellow-and-orange tie. This wasn’t the worst of it, though; he had evidently 
tried to tame his hair, using large quantities of what 
appeared to be axle grease. It was now slicked down 
into two bunches — perhaps he had tried a ponytail 
like Bill’s, but found he had too much hair. The look 
didn’t really suit Hagrid at all. For a moment, 
Hermione goggled at him, then, obviously deciding 
not to comment, she said, “Erm — where are the 
skrewts?” Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Out by the pumpkin patch,” said Hagrid happily. 
“They’re gettin’ massive, mus’ be nearly three foot 
long now. On’y trouble is, they’ve started killin’ each 
other.” “Oh no, really?” said Hermione, shooting a repressive 
look at Ron, who, staring at Hagrid’s odd hairstyle, 
had just opened his mouth to say something about it. “Yeah,” said Hagrid sadly. “ ’S’ okay, though, I’ve got 
’em in separate boxes now. Still got abou’ twenty.” “Well, that’s lucky,” said Ron. Hagrid missed the 
sarcasm. Hagrid’s cabin comprised a single room, in one corner 
of which was a gigantic bed covered in a patchwork 
quilt. A similarly enormous wooden table and chairs 
stood in front of the fire beneath the quantity of cured 
hams and dead birds hanging from the ceiling. They 
sat down at the table while Hagrid started to make 
tea, and were soon immersed in yet more discussion 
of the Triwizard Tournament. Hagrid seemed quite as 
excited about it as they were. “You wait,” he said, grinning. “You jus’ wait. Yer going 
ter see some stuff yeh’ve never seen before. Firs’ task 
... ah, but I’m not supposed ter say.” “Go on, Hagrid!” Harry, Ron, and Hermione urged 
him, but he just shook his head, grinning. “I don’ want ter spoil it fer yeh,” said Hagrid. “But it’s 
gonna be spectacular, I’ll tell yeh that. Them 
champions ’re going ter have their work cut out. Never 
thought I’d live ter see the Triwizard Tournament 
played again!” Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling They ended up having lunch with Hagrid, though they 
didn’t eat much — Hagrid had made what he said was 
a beef casserole, but after Hermione unearthed a 
large talon in hers, she, Harry, and Ron rather lost 
their appetites. However, they enjoyed themselves 
trying to make Hagrid tell them what the tasks in the 
tournament were going to be, speculating which of 
the entrants were likely to be selected as champions, 
and wondering whether Fred and George were 
beardless yet. A light rain had started to fall by midafternoon; it was 
very cozy sitting by the fire, listening to the gentle 
patter of the drops on the window, watching Hagrid 
darning his socks and arguing with Hermione about 
house-elves — for he flatly refused to join S.P.E.W. 
when she showed him her badges. “It’d be doin’ ’em an unkindness, Hermione,” he said 
gravely, threading a massive bone needle with thick 
yellow yarn. “It’s in their nature ter look after 
humans, that’s what they like, see? Yeh’d be makin’ 
’em unhappy ter take away their work, an’ insultin’ 
’em if yeh tried ter pay ’em.” “But Harry set Dobby free, and he was over the moon 
about it!” said Hermione. “And we heard he’s asking 
for wages now!” “Yeah, well, yeh get weirdos in every breed. I’m not 
sayin’ there isn’t the odd elf who’d take freedom, but 
yeh’ll never persuade most of ’em ter do it — no, 
nothin’ doin’, Hermione.” Hermione looked very cross indeed and stuffed her 
box of badges back into her cloak pocket. By half past five it was growing dark, and Ron, Harry, 
and Hermione decided it was time to get back up to Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling the castle for the Halloween feast — and, more 
important, the announcement of the school 
champions. “I’ll come with yeh,” said Hagrid, putting away his 
darning. “Jus’ give us a sec.” Hagrid got up, went across to the chest of drawers 
beside his bed, and began searching for something 
inside it. They didn’t pay too much attention until a 
truly horrible smell reached their nostrils. Coughing, 
Ron said, “Hagrid, what’s that?” “Eh?” said Hagrid, turning around with a large bottle 
in his hand. “Don’ yeh like it?” “Is that aftershave?” said Hermione in a slightly 
choked voice. “Er — eau de cologne,” Hagrid muttered. He was 
blushing. “Maybe it’s a bit much,” he said gruffly. “I’ll 
go take it off, hang on . . . He stumped out of the cabin, and they saw him 
washing himself vigorously in the water barrel outside 
the window. “Eau de cologne?” said Hermione in amazement. 
“Hagrid?” “And what’s with the hair and the suit?” said Harry in 
an undertone. “Look!” said Ron suddenly, pointing out of the 
window. Hagrid had just straightened up and turned ’round. If 
he had been blushing before, it was nothing to what 
he was doing now. Getting to their feet very Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling cautiously, so that Hagrid wouldn’t spot them, Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione peered through the window and 
saw that Madame Maxime and the Beauxbatons 
students had just emerged from their carriage, clearly 
about to set off for the feast too. They couldn’t hear 
what Hagrid was saying, but he was talking to 
Madame Maxime with a rapt, misty-eyed expression 
Harry had only ever seen him wear once before — 
when he had been looking at the baby dragon, Norbert. “He’s going up to the castle with her!” said Hermione 
indignantly. “I thought he was waiting for us!” Without so much as a backward glance at his cabin, 
Hagrid was trudging off up the grounds with Madame 
Maxime, the Beauxbatons students following in their 
wake, jogging to keep up with their enormous strides. “He fancies her!” said Ron incredulously. “Well, if they 
end up having children, they’ll be setting a world 
record — bet any baby of theirs would weigh about a 
ton.” They let themselves out of the cabin and shut the 
door behind them. It was surprisingly dark outside. 
Drawing their cloaks more closely around themselves, 
they set off up the sloping lawns. “Ooh it’s them, look!” Hermione whispered. The Durmstrang party was walking up toward the 
castle from the lake. Viktor Krum was walking side by 
side with Karkaroff, and the other Durmstrang 
students were straggling along behind them. Ron 
watched Krum excitedly, but Krum did not look 
around as he reached the front doors a little ahead of 
Hermione, Ron, and Harry and proceeded through 
them. Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling When they entered the candlelit Great Hall it was 
almost full. The Goblet of Fire had been moved; it was 
now standing in front of Dumbledore ’s empty chair at 
the teachers’ table. Fred and George — clean-shaven 
again — seemed to have taken their disappointment 
fairly well. “Hope it’s Angelina,” said Fred as Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione sat down. “So do I!” said Hermione breathlessly. “Well, we’ll 
soon know!” The Halloween feast seemed to take much longer than 
usual. Perhaps because it was their second feast in 
two days, Harry didn’t seem to fancy the 
extravagantly prepared food as much as he would 
have normally. Like everyone else in the Hall, judging 
by the constantly craning necks, the impatient 
expressions on every face, the fidgeting, and the 
standing up to see whether Dumbledore had finished 
eating yet, Harry simply wanted the plates to clear, 
and to hear who had been selected as champions. At long last, the golden plates returned to their 
original spotless state; there was a sharp upswing in 
the level of noise within the Hall, which died away 
almost instantly as Dumbledore got to his feet. On 
either side of him, Professor Karkaroff and Madame 
Maxime looked as tense and expectant as anyone. 
Ludo Bagman was beaming and winking at various 
students. Mr. Crouch, however, looked quite 
uninterested, almost bored. “Well, the goblet is almost ready to make its decision,” 
said Dumbledore. “I estimate that it requires one 
more minute. Now, when the champions’ names are 
called, I would ask them please to come up to the top 
of the Hall, walk along the staff table, and go through 
Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling into the next chamber” — he indicated the door 
behind the staff table — “where they will be receiving 
their first instructions.” He took out his wand and gave a great sweeping wave 
with it; at once, all the candles except those inside the 
carved pumpkins were extinguished, plunging them 
into a state of semidarkness. The Goblet of Fire now 
shone more brightly than anything in the whole Hall, 
the sparkling bright, bluey-whiteness of the flames 
almost painful on the eyes. Everyone watched, 
waiting. ... A few people kept checking their watches. “Any second,” Lee Jordan whispered, two seats away 
from Harry. The flames inside the goblet turned suddenly red 
again. Sparks began to fly from it. Next moment, a 
tongue of flame shot into the air, a charred piece of 
parchment fluttered out of it — the whole room 
gasped. Dumbledore caught the piece of parchment and held 
it at arm’s length, so that he could read it by the light 
of the flames, which had turned back to blue-white. “The champion for Durmstrang,” he read, in a strong, 
clear voice, “will be Viktor Krum.” “No surprises there!” yelled Ron as a storm of 
applause and cheering swept the Hall. Harry saw 
Viktor Krum rise from the Slytherin table and slouch 
up toward Dumbledore; he turned right, walked along 
the staff table, and disappeared through the door into 
the next chamber. Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Bravo, Viktor!” boomed Karkaroff, so loudly that 
everyone could hear him, even over all the applause. 
“Knew you had it in you!” The clapping and chatting died down. Now everyone’s 
attention was focused again on the goblet, which, 
seconds later, turned red once more. A second piece 
of parchment shot out of it, propelled by the flames. “The champion for Beauxbatons,” said Dumbledore, “is Fleur Delacour!” “It’s her, Ron!” Harry shouted as the girl who so 
resembled a veela got gracefully to her feet, shook 
back her sheet of silvery blonde hair, and swept up 
between the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff tables. “Oh look, they’re all disappointed,” Hermione said 
over the noise, nodding toward the remainder of the 
Beauxbatons party. “Disappointed” was a bit of an 
understatement, Harry thought. Two of the girls who 
had not been selected had dissolved into tears and 
were sobbing with their heads on their arms. When Fleur Delacour too had vanished into the side 
chamber, silence fell again, but this time it was a 
silence so stiff with excitement you could almost taste 
it. The Hogwarts champion next ... And the Goblet of Fire turned red once more; sparks 
showered out of it; the tongue of flame shot high into 
the air, and from its tip Dumbledore pulled the third 
piece of parchment. “The Hogwarts champion,” he called, “is Cedric 
Diggory!” “No!” said Ron loudly, but nobody heard him except 
Harry; the uproar from the next table was too great. Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Every single Hufflepuff had jumped to his or her feet, 
screaming and stamping, as Cedric made his way 
past them, grinning broadly, and headed off toward 
the chamber behind the teachers’ table. Indeed, the 
applause for Cedric went on so long that it was some 
time before Dumbledore could make himself heard 
again. “Excellent!” Dumbledore called happily as at last the 
tumult died down. “Well, we now have our three 
champions. I am sure I can count upon all of you, 
including the remaining students from Beauxbatons 
and Durmstrang, to give your champions every ounce 
of support you can muster. By cheering your 
champion on, you will contribute in a very real — ” But Dumbledore suddenly stopped speaking, and it 
was apparent to everybody what had distracted him. The fire in the goblet had just turned red again. 
Sparks were flying out of it. A long flame shot 
suddenly into the air, and borne upon it was another 
piece of parchment. Automatically, it seemed, Dumbledore reached out a 
long hand and seized the parchment. He held it out 
and stared at the name written upon it. There was a 
long pause, during which Dumbledore stared at the 
slip in his hands, and everyone in the room stared at 
Dumbledore. And then Dumbledore cleared his throat 
and read out — “ Harry Potter.” Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 