THE MADNESS OF MR. CROUCH Harry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery 
after breakfast on Sunday to send a letter to Percy, 
asking, as Sirius had suggested, whether he had seen 
Mr. Crouch lately. They used Hedwig, because it had 
been so long since she’d had a job. When they had 
watched her fly out of sight through the Owlery 
window, they proceeded down to the kitchen to give 
Dobby his new socks. The house-elves gave them a very cheery welcome, 
bowing and curtsying and bustling around making 
tea again. Dobby was ecstatic about his present. “Harry Potter is too good to Dobby!” he squeaked, 
wiping large tears out of his enormous eyes. “You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you 
really did,” said Harry. “No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?” said 
Ron, who was looking around at the beaming and 
bowing house-elves. Page | 591 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “You’ve just had breakfast!” said Hermione irritably, 
but a great silver platter of eclairs was already 
zooming toward them, supported by four elves. “We should get some stuff to send up to Snuffles,” 
Harry muttered. “Good idea,” said Ron. “Give Pig something to do. You 
couldn’t give us a bit of extra food, could you?” he 
said to the surrounding elves, and they bowed 
delightedly and hurried off to get some more. “Dobby, where’s Winky?” said Hermione, who was 
looking around. “Winky is over there by the fire, miss,” said Dobby 
quietly, his ears drooping slightly. “Oh dear,” said Hermione as she spotted Winky. Harry looked over at the fireplace too. Winky was 
sitting on the same stool as last time, but she had 
allowed herself to become so filthy that she was not 
immediately distinguishable from the smoke- 
blackened brick behind her. Her clothes were ragged 
and unwashed. She was clutching a bottle of 
butterbeer and swaying slightly on her stool, staring 
into the fire. As they watched her, she gave an 
enormous hiccup. “Winky is getting through six bottles a day now,” 
Dobby whispered to Harry. “Well, it’s not strong, that stuff,” Harry said. But Dobby shook his head. “ Tis strong for a house- 
elf, sir,” he said. Page | 592 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Winky hiccuped again. The elves who had brought the 
eclairs gave her disapproving looks as they returned 
to work. “Winky is pining, Harry Potter,” Dobby whispered 
sadly. “Winky wants to go home. Winky still thinks 
Mr. Crouch is her master, sir, and nothing Dobby 
says will persuade her that Professor Dumbledore is 
her master now.” “Hey, Winky,” said Harry, struck by a sudden 
inspiration, walking over to her, and bending down, 
“you don’t know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do 
you? Because he’s stopped turning up to judge the 
Triwizard Tournament.” Winky’s eyes flickered. Her enormous pupils focused 
on Harry. She swayed slightly again and then said, “M 
— Master is stopped — hie — coming?” “Yeah,” said Harry, “we haven’t seen him since the 
first task. The Daily Prophet’s saying he’s ill.” Winky swayed some more, staring blurrily at Harry. “Master — hie — ill?” Her bottom lip began to tremble. “But we’re not sure if that’s true,” said Hermione 
quickly. “Master is needing his — hie — Winky!” whimpered 
the elf. “Master cannot — hie — manage — hie — all 
by himself. ...” “Other people manage to do their own housework, 
you know, Winky,” Hermione said severely. Page | 593 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Winky — hie — is not only — hie — doing housework 
for Mr. Crouch!” Winky squeaked indignantly, 
swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer 
down her already heavily stained blouse. “Master is — 
hie — trusting Winky with — hie — the most 
important — hie — the most secret — ” “What?” said Harry. But Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more 
butterbeer down herself. “Winky keeps — hie — her master’s secrets,” she said 
mutinously, swaying very heavily now, frowning up at 
Harry with her eyes crossed. “You is — hie — nosing, 
you is.” “Winky must not talk like that to Harry Potter!” said 
Dobby angrily. “Harry Potter is brave and noble and 
Harry Potter is not nosy!” “He is nosing — hie — into my master’s — hie — 
private and secret — hie — Winky is a good house-elf 
— hie — Winky keeps her silence — hie — people 
trying to — hie — pry and poke — hie — ” Winky’s eyelids drooped and suddenly, without 
warning, she slid off her stool into the hearth, snoring 
loudly. The empty bottle of butterbeer rolled away 
across the stone-flagged floor. Half a dozen house- 
elves came hurrying forward, looking disgusted. One 
of them picked up the bottle; the others covered 
Winky with a large checked tablecloth and tucked the 
ends in neatly, hiding her from view. “We is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!” 
squeaked a nearby elf, shaking his head and looking 
very ashamed. “We is hoping you will not judge us all 
by Winky, sirs and miss!” Page | 594 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “She’s unhappy!” said Hermione, exasperated. “Why 
don’t you try and cheer her up instead of covering her 
up?” “Begging your pardon, miss,” said the house-elf, 
bowing deeply again, “but house-elves has no right to 
be unhappy when there is work to be done and 
masters to be served.” “Oh for heaven’s sake!” Hermione cried. “Listen to me, 
all of you! You’ve got just as much right as wizards to 
be unhappy! You’ve got the right to wages and 
holidays and proper clothes, you don’t have to do 
everything you’re told — look at Dobby!” “Miss will please keep Dobby out of this,” Dobby 
mumbled, looking scared. The cheery smiles had 
vanished from the faces of the house-elves around the 
kitchen. They were suddenly looking at Hermione as 
though she were mad and dangerous. “We has your extra food!” squeaked an elf at Harry’s 
elbow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and 
some fruit into Harry’s arms. “Good-bye!” The house-elves crowded around Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione and began shunting them out of the 
kitchen, many little hands pushing in the smalls of 
their backs. “Thank you for the socks, Harry Potter!” Dobby called 
miserably from the hearth, where he was standing 
next to the lumpy tablecloth that was Winky. “You couldn’t keep your mouth shut, could you, 
Hermione?” said Ron angrily as the kitchen door 
slammed shut behind them. “They won’t want us 
visiting them now! We could’ve tried to get more stuff 
out of Winky about Crouch!” Page | 595 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Oh as if you care about that!” scoffed Hermione. “You 
only like coming down here for the food!” It was an irritable sort of day after that. Harry got so 
tired of Ron and Hermione sniping at each other over 
their homework in the common room that he took 
Sirius’s food up to the Owlery that evening on his 
own. Pigwidgeon was much too small to carry an entire 
ham up to the mountain by himself, so Harry enlisted 
the help of two school screech owls as well. When 
they had set off into the dusk, looking extremely odd 
carrying the large package between them, Harry 
leaned on the windowsill, looking out at the grounds, 
at the dark, rustling treetops of the Forbidden Forest, 
and the rippling sails of the Durmstrang ship. An 
eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from 
Hagrid’s chimney; it soared toward the castle, around 
the Owlery, and out of sight. Looking down, Harry 
saw Hagrid digging energetically in front of his cabin. 
Harry wondered what he was doing; it looked as 
though he were making a new vegetable patch. As he 
watched, Madame Maxime emerged from the 
Beauxbatons carriage and walked over to Hagrid. She 
appeared to be trying to engage him in conversation. 
Hagrid leaned upon his spade, but did not seem keen 
to prolong their talk, because Madame Maxime 
returned to the carriage shortly afterward. Unwilling to go back to Gryffindor Tower and listen to 
Ron and Hermione snarling at each other, Harry 
watched Hagrid digging until the darkness swallowed 
him and the owls around Harry began to awake, 
swooshing past him into the night. By breakfast the next day Ron’s and Hermione’s bad 
moods had burnt out, and to Harry’s relief, Ron’s 
dark predictions that the house-elves would send Page | 596 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling substandard food up to the Gryffindor table because 
Hermione had insulted them proved false; the bacon, 
eggs, and kippers were quite as good as usual. When the post owls arrived, Hermione looked up 
eagerly; she seemed to be expecting something. “Percy won’t’ve had time to answer yet,” said Ron. “We 
only sent Hedwig yesterday.” “No, it’s not that,” said Hermione. “I’ve taken out a 
subscription to the Daily Prophet I’m getting sick of 
finding everything out from the Slytherins.” “Good thinking!” said Harry, also looking up at the 
owls. “Hey, Hermione, I think you’re in luck — ” A gray owl was soaring down toward Hermione. “It hasn’t got a newspaper, though,” she said, looking 
disappointed. “It’s — ” But to her bewilderment, the gray owl landed in front 
of her plate, closely followed by four barn owls, a 
brown owl, and a tawny. “How many subscriptions did you take out?” said 
Harry, seizing Hermione ’s goblet before it was 
knocked over by the cluster of owls, all of whom were 
jostling close to her, trying to deliver their own letter 
first. “What on earth — ?” Hermione said, taking the letter 
from the gray owl, opening it, and starting to read. “Oh really!” she sputtered, going rather red. “What’s up?” said Ron. “It’s — oh how ridiculous — ” Page | 597 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling She thrust the letter at Harry, who saw that it was 
not handwritten, but composed from pasted letters 
that seemed to have been cut out of the Daily Prophet. You are a WickEd giRL. HarRy PotTER desErves BeTteR. GO back wherE you cAMe from mUGgle. “They’re all like it!” said Hermione desperately, 
opening one letter after another. “ ‘Harry Potter can do 
much better than the likes of you. ...’ ‘You deserve to 
be boiled in frog spawn. ...’ Ouch!” She had opened the last envelope, and yellowish- 
green liquid smelling strongly of petrol gushed over 
her hands, which began to erupt in large yellow boils. “Undiluted bubotuber pus!” said Ron, picking up the 
envelope gingerly and sniffing it. “Ow!” said Hermione, tears starting in her eyes as she 
tried to rub the pus off her hands with a napkin, but 
her fingers were now so thickly covered in painful 
sores that it looked as though she were wearing a pair 
of thick, knobbly gloves. “You’d better get up to the hospital wing,” said Harry 
as the owls around Hermione took flight. “We’ll tell 
Professor Sprout where you’ve gone. ...” “I warned her!” said Ron as Hermione hurried out of 
the Great Hall, cradling her hands. “I warned her not 
to annoy Rita Skeeter! Look at this one ...” He read 
out one of the letters Hermione had left behind: “ ‘I 
read in Witch Weekly about how you are playing 
Harry Potter false and that boy has had enough 
hardship and I will be sending you a curse by next Page | 598 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling post as soon as I can find a big enough envelope.’ 
Blimey, she’d better watch out for herself.” Hermione didn’t turn up for Herbology. As Harry and 
Ron left the greenhouse for their Care of Magical 
Creatures class, they saw Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
descending the stone steps of the castle. Pansy 
Parkinson was whispering and giggling behind them 
with her gang of Slytherin girls. Catching sight of 
Harry, Pansy called, “Potter, have you split up with 
your girlfriend? Why was she so upset at breakfast?” Harry ignored her; he didn’t want to give her the 
satisfaction of knowing how much trouble the Witch 
Weekly article had caused. Hagrid, who had told them last lesson that they had 
finished with unicorns, was waiting for them outside 
his cabin with a fresh supply of open crates at his 
feet. Harry’s heart sank at the sight of the crates — 
surely not another skrewt hatching? — but when he 
got near enough to see inside, he found himself 
looking at a number of fluffy black creatures with 
long snouts. Their front paws were curiously flat, like 
spades, and they were blinking up at the class, 
looking politely puzzled at all the attention. “These’re nifflers,” said Hagrid, when the class had 
gathered around. “Yeh find ’em down mines mostly. 
They like sparkly stuff. ... There yeh go, look.” One of the nifflers had suddenly leapt up and 
attempted to bite Pansy Parkinson’s watch off her 
wrist. She shrieked and jumped backward. “Useful little treasure detectors,” said Hagrid happily. 
“Thought we’d have some fun with ’em today. See over 
there?” He pointed at the large patch of freshly turned 
earth Harry had watched him digging from the Owlery Page | 599 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling window. “I’ve buried some gold coins. I’ve got a prize 
fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up most. Jus’ 
take off all yer valuables, an’ choose a niffler, an’ get 
ready ter set ’em loose.” Harry took off his watch, which he was only wearing 
out of habit, as it didn’t work anymore, and stuffed it 
into his pocket. Then he picked up a niffler. It put its 
long snout in Harry’s ear and sniffed enthusiastically. 
It was really quite cuddly. “Hang on,” said Hagrid, looking down into the crate, 
“there’s a spare niffler here ... who’s missin’? Where’s 
Hermione?” “She had to go to the hospital wing,” said Ron. “Well explain later,” Harry muttered; Pansy 
Parkinson was listening. It was easily the most fun they had ever had in Care 
of Magical Creatures. The nifflers dived in and out of 
the patch of earth as though it were water, each 
scurrying back to the student who had released it and 
spitting gold into their hands. Ron’s was particularly 
efficient; it had soon filled his lap with coins. “Can you buy these as pets, Hagrid?” he asked 
excitedly as his niffler dived back into the soil, 
splattering his robes. “Yer mum wouldn’ be happy, Ron,” said Hagrid, 
grinning. “They wreck houses, nifflers. I reckon 
they’ve nearly got the lot, now,” he added, pacing 
around the patch of earth while the nifflers continued 
to dive. “I on’y buried a hundred coins. Oh there 
y’are, Hermione!” Page | 600 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Hermione was walking toward them across the lawn. 
Her hands were very heavily bandaged and she looked 
miserable. Pansy Parkinson was watching her 
beadily. “Well, let’s check how yeh’ve done!” said Hagrid. 
“Count yer coins! An’ there’s no point tryin’ ter steal 
any, Goyle,” he added, his beetle-black eyes 
narrowed. “It’s leprechaun gold. Vanishes after a few 
hours.” Goyle emptied his pockets, looking extremely sulky. It 
turned out that Ron’s niffler had been most 
successful, so Hagrid gave him an enormous slab of 
Honeydukes chocolate for a prize. The bell rang 
across the grounds for lunch; the rest of the class set 
off back to the castle, but Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stayed behind to help Hagrid put the nifflers back in 
their boxes. Harry noticed Madame Maxime watching 
them out of her carriage window. “What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?” said 
Hagrid, looking concerned. Hermione told him about the hate mail she had 
received that morning, and the envelope full of 
bubotuber pus. “Aaah, don’ worry,” said Hagrid gently, looking down 
at her. “I got some o’ those letters an’ all, after Rita 
Skeeter wrote abou’ me mum. ‘Yeh’re a monster an’ 
yeh should be put down.’ ‘Yer mother killed innocent 
people an’ if you had any decency you’d jump in a 
lake. ’ ” “No!” said Hermione, looking shocked. “Yeah,” said Hagrid, heaving the niffler crates over by 
his cabin wall. “They’re jus’ nutters, Hermione. Don’ Page | 601 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling open ’em if yeh get any more. Chuck ’em straigh’ in 
the fire.” “You missed a really good lesson,” Harry told 
Hermione as they headed back toward the castle. 
“They’re good, nifflers, aren’t they, Ron?” Ron, however, was frowning at the chocolate Hagrid 
had given him. He looked thoroughly put out about 
something. “What’s the matter?” said Harry. “Wrong flavor?” “No,” said Ron shortly. “Why didn’t you tell me about 
the gold?” “What gold?” said Harry. “The gold I gave you at the Quidditch World Cup,” 
said Ron. “The leprechaun gold I gave you for my 
Omnioculars. In the Top Box. Why didn’t you tell me 
it disappeared?” Harry had to think for a moment before he realized 
what Ron was talking about. “Oh ...” he said, the memory coming back to him at 
last. “I dunno ... I never noticed it had gone. I was 
more worried about my wand, wasn’t I?” They climbed the steps into the entrance hall and 
went into the Great Hall for lunch. “Must be nice,” Ron said abruptly, when they had sat 
down and started serving themselves roast beef and 
Yorkshire puddings. “To have so much money you 
don’t notice if a pocketful of Galleons goes missing.” Page | 602 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Listen, I had other stuff on my mind that night!” said 
Harry impatiently. “We all did, remember?” “I didn’t know leprechaun gold vanishes,” Ron 
muttered. “I thought I was paying you back. You 
shouldn’t ’ve given me that Chudley Cannon hat for 
Christmas.” “Forget it, all right?” said Harry. Ron speared a roast potato on the end of his fork, 
glaring at it. Then he said, “I hate being poor.” Harry and Hermione looked at each other. Neither of 
them really knew what to say. “It’s rubbish,” said Ron, still glaring down at his 
potato. “I don’t blame Fred and George for trying to 
make some extra money. Wish I could. Wish I had a 
niffler.” “Well, we know what to get you next Christmas,” said 
Hermione brightly. Then, when Ron continued to look 
gloomy, she said, “Come on, Ron, it could be worse. At least your fingers aren’t full of pus.” Hermione was 
having a lot of difficulty managing her knife and fork, 
her fingers were so stiff and swollen. “I hate that 
Skeeter woman!” she burst out savagely. “I’ll get her 
back for this if it’s the last thing I do!” Hate mail continued to arrive for Hermione over the 
following week, and although she followed Hagrid’s 
advice and stopped opening it, several of her ill- 
wishers sent Howlers, which exploded at the 
Gryffindor table and shrieked insults at her for the 
whole Hall to hear. Even those people who didn’t read 
Witch Weekly knew all about the supposed Harry- 
Page | 603 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Krum-Hermione triangle now. Harry was getting sick 
of telling people that Hermione wasn’t his girlfriend. “It’ll die down, though,” he told Hermione, “if we just 
ignore it. ... People got bored with that stuff she wrote 
about me last time — ” “I want to know how she’s listening into private 
conversations when she’s supposed to be banned 
from the grounds!” said Hermione angrily. Hermione hung back in their next Defense Against 
the Dark Arts lesson to ask Professor Moody 
something. The rest of the class was very eager to 
leave; Moody had given them such a rigorous test of 
hex-deflection that many of them were nursing small 
injuries. Harry had such a bad case of Twitchy Ears, 
he had to hold his hands clamped over them as he 
walked away from the class. “Well, Rita’s definitely not using an Invisibility Cloak!” 
Hermione panted five minutes later, catching up with 
Harry and Ron in the entrance hall and pulling 
Harry’s hand away from one of his wiggling ears so 
that he could hear her. “Moody says he didn’t see her 
anywhere near the judges’ table at the second task, or 
anywhere near the lake!” “Hermione, is there any point in telling you to drop 
this?” said Ron. “No!” said Hermione stubbornly. “I want to know how 
she heard me talking to Viktor! And how she found 
out about Hagrid’s mum!” “Maybe she had you bugged,” said Harry. “Bugged?” said Ron blankly. “What ... put fleas on her 
or something?” Page | 604 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Harry started explaining about hidden microphones 
and recording equipment. Ron was fascinated, but 
Hermione interrupted them. “Aren’t you two ever going to read Hogwarts, A 
History?” “What’s the point?” said Ron. “You know it by heart, 
we can just ask you.” “All those substitutes for magic Muggles use — 
electricity, computers, and radar, and all those things 
— they all go haywire around Hogwarts, there’s too 
much magic in the air. No, Rita’s using magic to 
eavesdrop, she must be. ... If I could just find out 
what it is ... ooh, if it’s illegal, I’ll have her ...” “Haven’t we got enough to worry about?” Ron asked 
her. “Do we have to start a vendetta against Rita 
Skeeter as well?” “I’m not asking you to help!” Hermione snapped. “I’ll 
do it on my own!” She marched back up the marble staircase without a 
backward glance. Harry was quite sure she was going 
to the library. “What’s the betting she comes back with a box of / 
Hate Rita Skeeter badges?” said Ron. Hermione, however, did not ask Harry and Ron to 
help her pursue vengeance against Rita Skeeter, for 
which they were both grateful, because their workload 
was mounting ever higher in the days before the 
Easter holidays. Harry frankly marveled at the fact 
that Hermione could research magical methods of 
eavesdropping as well as everything else they had to 
do. He was working flat-out just to get through all 
Page | 605 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling their homework, though he made a point of sending 
regular food packages up to the cave in the mountain 
for Sirius; after last summer, Harry had not forgotten 
what it felt like to be continually hungry. He enclosed 
notes to Sirius, telling him that nothing out of the 
ordinary had happened, and that they were still 
waiting for an answer from Percy. Hedwig didn’t return until the end of the Easter 
holidays. Percy’s letter was enclosed in a package of 
Easter eggs that Mrs. Weasley had sent. Both Harry’s 
and Ron’s were the size of dragon eggs and full of 
homemade toffee. Hermione’s, however, was smaller 
than a chicken egg. Her face fell when she saw it. “Your mum doesn’t read Witch Weekly, by any 
chance, does she, Ron?” she asked quietly. “Yeah,” said Ron, whose mouth was full of toffee. “Gets it for the recipes.” Hermione looked sadly at her tiny egg. “Don’t you want to see what Percy’s written?” Harry 
asked her hastily. Percy’s letter was short and irritated. As I am constantly telling the Daily Prophet, Mr. Crouch is taking a well-deserved break. He is sending 
in regular owls with instructions. No, I haven’t actually 
seen him, but I think I can be trusted to know my own 
superior’s handwriting. I have quite enough to do at 
the moment without trying to quash these ridiculous 
rumors. Please don’t bother me again unless it’s 
something important. Happy Easter. The start of the summer term would normally have 
meant that Harry was training hard for the last Page | 606 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Quidditch match of the season. This year, however, it 
was the third and final task in the Triwizard 
Tournament for which he needed to prepare, but he 
still didn’t know what he would have to do. Finally, in 
the last week of May, Professor McGonagall held him 
back in Transfiguration. “You are to go down to the Quidditch field tonight at 
nine o’clock, Potter,” she told him. “Mr. Bagman will 
be there to tell the champions about the third task.” So at half past eight that night, Harry left Ron and 
Hermione in Gryffindor Tower and went downstairs. 
As he crossed the entrance hall, Cedric came up from 
the Hufflepuff common room. “What d’you reckon it’s going to be?” he asked Harry 
as they went together down the stone steps, out into 
the cloudy night. “Fleur keeps going on about 
underground tunnels; she reckons we’ve got to find 
treasure.” “That wouldn’t be too bad,” said Harry, thinking that 
he would simply ask Hagrid for a niffler to do the job 
for him. They walked down the dark lawn to the Quidditch 
stadium, turned through a gap in the stands, and 
walked out onto the field. “What’ve they done to it?” Cedric said indignantly, 
stopping dead. The Quidditch field was no longer smooth and flat. It 
looked as though somebody had been building long, 
low walls all over it that twisted and crisscrossed in 
every direction. Page | 607 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “They’re hedges!” said Harry, bending to examine the 
nearest one. “Hello there!” called a cheery voice. Ludo Bagman was standing in the middle of the field 
with Krum and Fleur. Harry and Cedric made their 
way toward them, climbing over the hedges. Fleur 
beamed at Harry as he came nearer. Her attitude 
toward him had changed completely since he had 
saved her sister from the lake. “Well, what d’you think?” said Bagman happily as 
Harry and Cedric climbed over the last hedge. 
“Growing nicely, aren’t they? Give them a month and 
Hagrid’ll have them twenty feet high. Don’t worry,” he 
added, grinning, spotting the less-than-happy 
expressions on Harry’s and Cedric’s faces, “you’ll have 
your Quidditch field back to normal once the task is 
over! Now, I imagine you can guess what we’re 
making here?” No one spoke for a moment. Then — “Maze,” grunted Krum. “That’s right!” said Bagman. “A maze. The third task’s 
really very straightforward. The Triwizard Cup will be 
placed in the center of the maze. The first champion 
to touch it will receive full marks.” “We seemply ’ave to get through the maze?” said 
Fleur. “There will be obstacles,” said Bagman happily, 
bouncing on the balls of his feet. “Hagrid is providing 
a number of creatures . . . then there will be spells that 
must be broken ... all that sort of thing, you know. 
Now, the champions who are leading on points will 
Page | 608 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling get a head start into the maze.” Bagman grinned at 
Harry and Cedric. “Then Mr. Krum will enter ... then 
Miss Delacour. But you 11 all be in with a fighting 
chance, depending how well you get past the 
obstacles. Should be fun, eh?” Harry, who knew only too well the kind of creatures 
that Hagrid was likely to provide for an event like this, 
thought it was unlikely to be any fun at all. However, 
he nodded politely like the other champions. “Very well ... if you haven’t got any questions, we’ll go 
back up to the castle, shall we, it’s a bit chilly. ...” Bagman hurried alongside Harry as they began to 
wend their way out of the growing maze. Harry had 
the feeling that Bagman was going to start offering to 
help him again, but just then, Krum tapped Harry on 
the shoulder. “Could I haff a vord?” “Yeah, all right,” said Harry, slightly surprised. “Vill you valk vith me?” “Okay,” said Harry curiously. Bagman looked slightly perturbed. “I’ll wait for you, Harry, shall I?” “No, it’s okay, Mr. Bagman,” said Harry, suppressing 
a smile, “I think I can find the castle on my own, 
thanks.” Harry and Krum left the stadium together, but Krum 
did not set a course for the Durmstrang ship. Instead, 
he walked toward the forest. Page | 609 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “What ’re we going this way for?” said Harry as they 
passed Hagrid’s cabin and the illuminated 
Beauxbatons carriage. “Don’t vant to be overheard,” said Krum shortly. When at last they had reached a quiet stretch of 
ground a short way from the Beauxbatons horses’ 
paddock, Krum stopped in the shade of the trees and 
turned to face Harry. “I vant to know,” he said, glowering, “vot there is 
between you and Hermy-own-ninny.” Harry, who from Krum’s secretive manner had 
expected something much more serious than this, 
stared up at Krum in amazement. “Nothing,” he said. But Krum glowered at him, and 
Harry, somehow struck anew by how tall Krum was, 
elaborated. “We’re friends. She’s not my girlfriend and 
she never has been. It’s just that Skeeter woman 
making things up.” “Hermy-own-ninny talks about you very often,” said 
Krum, looking suspiciously at Harry. “Yeah,” said Harry, “because we’re friends.” He couldn’t quite believe he was having this 
conversation with Viktor Krum, the famous 
International Quidditch player. It was as though the 
eighteen-year-old Krum thought he, Harry, was an 
equal — a real rival — “You haff never ... you haff not ...” “No,” said Harry very firmly. Page | 610 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Krum looked slightly happier. He stared at Harry for a 
few seconds, then said, “You fly very veil. I vos 
votching at the first task.” “Thanks,” said Harry, grinning broadly and suddenly 
feeling much taller himself. “I saw you at the 
Quidditch World Cup. The Wronski Feint, you really But something moved behind Krum in the trees, and 
Harry, who had some experience of the sort of thing 
that lurked in the forest, instinctively grabbed Krum’s 
arm and pulled him around. “Vot is it?” Harry shook his head, staring at the place where he’d 
seen movement. He slipped his hand inside his robes, 
reaching for his wand. Suddenly a man staggered out from behind a tall oak. 
For a moment, Harry didn’t recognize him ... then he 
realized it was Mr. Crouch. He looked as though he had been traveling for days. 
The knees of his robes were ripped and bloody, his 
face scratched; he was unshaven and gray with 
exhaustion. His neat hair and mustache were both in 
need of a wash and a trim. His strange appearance, 
however, was nothing to the way he was behaving. 
Muttering and gesticulating, Mr. Crouch appeared to 
be talking to someone that he alone could see. He 
reminded Harry vividly of an old tramp he had seen 
once when out shopping with the Dursleys. That man 
too had been conversing wildly with thin air; Aunt 
Petunia had seized Dudley’s hand and pulled him 
across the road to avoid him; Uncle Vernon had then 
treated the family to a long rant about what he would 
like to do with beggars and vagrants. Page | 611 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling “Vosn’t he a judge?” said Krum, staring at Mr. Crouch. “Isn’t he vith your Ministry?” Harry nodded, hesitated for a moment, then walked 
slowly toward Mr. Crouch, who did not look at him, 
but continued to talk to a nearby tree. "... and when you’ve done that, Weatherby, send an 
owl to Dumbledore confirming the number of 
Durmstrang students who will be attending the 
tournament, Karkaroff has just sent word there will 
be twelve. ...” “Mr. Crouch?” said Harry cautiously. "... and then send another owl to Madame Maxime, 
because she might want to up the number of 
students she’s bringing, now Karkaroff’s made it a 
round dozen ... do that, Weatherby, will you? Will 
you? Will...” Mr. Crouch’s eyes were bulging. He stood staring at 
the tree, muttering soundlessly at it. Then he 
staggered sideways and fell to his knees. “Mr. Crouch?” Harry said loudly. “Are you all right?” Crouch’s eyes were rolling in his head. Harry looked 
around at Krum, who had followed him into the trees, 
and was looking down at Crouch in alarm. “Vot is wrong with him?” “No idea,” Harry muttered. “Listen, you’d better go 
and get someone — ” “Dumbledore!” gasped Mr. Crouch. He reached out 
and seized a handful of Harry’s robes, dragging him Page | 612 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling closer, though his eyes were staring over Harry’s 
head. “I need ... see ... Dumbledore. ...” “Okay,” said Harry, “if you get up, Mr. Crouch, we can 
go up to the — ” “I’ve done ... stupid ... thing ...” Mr. Crouch breathed. 
He looked utterly mad. His eyes were rolling and 
bulging, and a trickle of spittle was sliding down his 
chin. Every word he spoke seemed to cost him a 
terrible effort. “Must ... tell ... Dumbledore ...” “Get up, Mr. Crouch,” said Harry loudly and clearly. 
“Get up, I’ll take you to Dumbledore!” Mr. Crouch’s eyes rolled forward onto Harry. “Who ... you?” he whispered. “I’m a student at the school,” said Harry, looking 
around at Krum for some help, but Krum was 
hanging back, looking extremely nervous. “You’re not ... his?” whispered Crouch, his mouth 
sagging. “No,” said Harry, without the faintest idea what 
Crouch was talking about. “Dumbledore ’s?” “That’s right,” said Harry. Crouch was pulling him closer; Harry tried to loosen 
Crouch’s grip on his robes, but it was too powerful. “Warn ... Dumbledore ...” Page | 613 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “I’ll get Dumbledore if you let go of me,” said Harry. 
“Just let go, Mr. Crouch, and I’ll get him. ...” “Thank you, Weatherby, and when you have done 
that, I would like a cup of tea. My wife and son will be 
arriving shortly, we are attending a concert tonight 
with Mr. and Mrs. Fudge.” Crouch was now talking fluently to a tree again, and 
seemed completely unaware that Harry was there, 
which surprised Harry so much he didn’t notice that 
Crouch had released him. “Yes, my son has recently gained twelve O.W.L.s, 
most satisfactory, yes, thank you, yes, very proud 
indeed. Now, if you could bring me that memo from 
the Andorran Minister of Magic, I think I will have 
time to draft a response. ...” “You stay here with him!” Harry said to Krum. “I’ll get 
Dumbledore, I’ll be quicker, I know where his office is “He is mad,” said Krum doubtfully, staring down at 
Crouch, who was still gabbling to the tree, apparently 
convinced it was Percy. “Just stay with him,” said Harry, starting to get up, 
but his movement seemed to trigger another abrupt 
change in Mr. Crouch, who seized him hard around 
the knees and pulled Harry back to the ground. “Don’t ... leave ... me!” he whispered, his eyes bulging 
again. “I ... escaped . . . must warn . . . must tell . . . see 
Dumbledore . . . my fault ... all my fault . . . Bertha . . . 
dead ... all my fault . . . my son . . . my fault . . . tell 
Dumbledore . . . Harry Potter . . . the Dark Lord . . . 
stronger ... Harry Potter ...” Page | 614 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “I’ll get Dumbledore if you let me go, Mr. Crouch!” 
said Harry. He looked furiously around at Krum. “Help me, will you?” Looking extremely apprehensive, Krum moved 
forward and squatted down next to Mr. Crouch. “Just keep him here,” said Harry, pulling himself free 
of Mr. Crouch. “I’ll be back with Dumbledore.” “Hurry, von’t you?” Krum called after him as Harry 
sprinted away from the forest and up through the 
dark grounds. They were deserted; Bagman, Cedric, 
and Fleur had disappeared. Harry tore up the stone 
steps, through the oak front doors, and off up the 
marble staircase, toward the second floor. Five minutes later he was hurtling toward a stone 
gargoyle standing halfway along an empty corridor. “Sher — sherbet lemon!” he panted at it. This was the password to the hidden staircase to 
Dumbledore ’s office — or at least, it had been two 
years ago. The password had evidently changed, 
however, for the stone gargoyle did not spring to life 
and jump aside, but stood frozen, glaring at Harry 
malevolently. “Move!” Harry shouted at it. “C’mon!” But nothing at Hogwarts had ever moved just because 
he shouted at it; he knew it was no good. He looked 
up and down the dark corridor. Perhaps Dumbledore 
was in the staffroom? He started running as fast as 
he could toward the staircase — “POTTER!” Page | 615 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Harry skidded to a halt and looked around. Snape 
had just emerged from the hidden staircase behind 
the stone gargoyle. The wall was sliding shut behind 
him even as he beckoned Harry back toward him. “What are you doing here, Potter?” “I need to see Professor Dumbledore!” said Harry, 
running back up the corridor and skidding to a 
standstill in front of Snape instead. “It’s Mr. Crouch 
... he’s just turned up ... he’s in the forest ... he’s 
asking — ” “What is this rubbish?” said Snape, his black eyes 
glittering. “What are you talking about?” “Mr. Crouch!” Harry shouted. “From the Ministry! He’s ill or something — he’s in the forest, he wants to 
see Dumbledore! Just give me the password up to — ” “The headmaster is busy, Potter,” said Snape, his thin 
mouth curling into an unpleasant smile. “I’ve got to tell Dumbledore!” Harry yelled. “Didn’t you hear me, Potter?” Harry could tell Snape was thoroughly enjoying 
himself, denying Harry the thing he wanted when he 
was so panicky. “Look,” said Harry angrily, “Crouch isn’t right — he’s 
— he’s out of his mind — he says he wants to warn — The stone wall behind Snape slid open. Dumbledore 
was standing there, wearing long green robes and a 
mildly curious expression. “Is there a problem?” he 
said, looking between Harry and Snape. Page | 616 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Professor!” Harry said, sidestepping Snape before 
Snape could speak, “Mr. Crouch is here — he’s down 
in the forest, he wants to speak to you!” Harry expected Dumbledore to ask questions, but to 
his relief, Dumbledore did nothing of the sort. “Lead the way,” he said promptly, and he swept off 
along the corridor behind Harry, leaving Snape 
standing next to the gargoyle and looking twice as 
ugly. “What did Mr. Crouch say, Harry?” said Dumbledore 
as they walked swiftly down the marble staircase. “Said he wants to warn you ... said he’s done 
something terrible ... he mentioned his son . . . and 
Bertha Jorkins ... and — and Voldemort ... something 
about Voldemort getting stronger. ...” “Indeed,” said Dumbledore, and he quickened his 
pace as they hurried out into the pitch-darkness. “He’s not acting normally,” Harry said, hurrying along 
beside Dumbledore. “He doesn’t seem to know where 
he is. He keeps talking like he thinks Percy Weasley’s 
there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see 
you. ... I left him with Viktor Krum.” “You did?” said Dumbledore sharply, and he began to 
take longer strides still, so that Harry was running to 
keep up. “Do you know if anybody else saw Mr. 
Crouch?” “No,” said Harry. “Krum and I were talking, Mr. 
Bagman had just finished telling us about the third 
task, we stayed behind, and then we saw Mr. Crouch 
coming out of the forest — ” Page | 617 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Where are they?” said Dumbledore as the 
Beauxbatons carriage emerged from the darkness. “Over here,” said Harry, moving in front of 
Dumbledore, leading the way through the trees. He 
couldn’t hear Crouch’s voice anymore, but he knew 
where he was going; it hadn’t been much past the 
Beauxbatons carriage ... somewhere around here. ... “Viktor?” Harry shouted. No one answered. “They were here,” Harry said to Dumbledore. “They 
were definitely somewhere around here. ...” “Lumos,” Dumbledore said, lighting his wand and 
holding it up. Its narrow beam traveled from black trunk to black 
trunk, illuminating the ground. And then it fell upon 
a pair of feet. Harry and Dumbledore hurried forward. Krum was 
sprawled on the forest floor. He seemed to be 
unconscious. There was no sign at all of Mr. Crouch. 
Dumbledore bent over Krum and gently lifted one of 
his eyelids. “Stunned,” he said softly. His half-moon glasses 
glittered in the wandlight as he peered around at the 
surrounding trees. “Should I go and get someone?” said Harry. “Madam 
Pomfrey?” “No,” said Dumbledore swiftly. “Stay here.” Page | 618 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling He raised his wand into the air and pointed it in the 
direction of Hagrid ’s cabin. Harry saw something 
silvery dart out of it and streak away through the 
trees like a ghostly bird. Then Dumbledore bent over 
Krum again, pointed his wand at him, and muttered, 
“Renneruate.” Krum opened his eyes. He looked dazed. When he saw 
Dumbledore, he tried to sit up, but Dumbledore put a 
hand on his shoulder and made him lie still. “He attacked me!” Krum muttered, putting a hand up 
to his head. “The old madman attacked me! I vos 
looking around to see vare Potter had gone and he 
attacked from behind!” “Lie still for a moment,” Dumbledore said. The sound of thunderous footfalls reached them, and 
Hagrid came panting into sight with Fang at his 
heels. He was carrying his crossbow. “Professor Dumbledore!” he said, his eyes widening. 
“Harry — what the — ?” “Hagrid, I need you to fetch Professor Karkaroff,” said 
Dumbledore. “His student has been attacked. When 
you’ve done that, kindly alert Professor Moody — ” “No need, Dumbledore,” said a wheezy growl. “I’m 
here.” Moody was limping toward them, leaning on his staff, 
his wand lit. “Damn leg,” he said furiously. “Would’ve been here 
quicker ... what’s happened? Snape said something 
about Crouch — ” Page | 619 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Crouch?” said Hagrid blankly. “Karkaroff, please, Hagrid!” said Dumbledore sharply. “Oh yeah ... right y’are, Professor ...” said Hagrid, and 
he turned and disappeared into the dark trees, Fang 
trotting after him. “I don’t know where Barty Crouch is,” Dumbledore 
told Moody, “but it is essential that we find him.” “I’m onto it,” growled Moody, and he pulled out his 
wand and limped off into the forest. Neither Dumbledore nor Harry spoke again until they 
heard the unmistakable sounds of Hagrid and Fang 
returning. Karkaroff was hurrying along behind them. 
He was wearing his sleek silver furs, and he looked 
pale and agitated. “What is this?” he cried when he saw Krum on the 
ground and Dumbledore and Harry beside him. 
“What’s going on?” “I vos attacked!” said Krum, sitting up now and 
rubbing his head. “Mr. Crouch or votever his name — “Crouch attacked you? Crouch attacked you? The 
Triwizard judge?” “Igor,” Dumbledore began, but Karkaroff had drawn 
himself up, clutching his furs around him, looking 
livid. “Treachery!” he bellowed, pointing at Dumbledore. “It 
is a plot! You and your Ministry of Magic have lured 
me here under false pretenses, Dumbledore! This is 
not an equal competition! First you sneak Potter into Page | 620 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling the tournament, though he is underage! Now one of 
your Ministry friends attempts to put my champion 
out of action! I smell double-dealing and corruption in 
this whole affair, and you, Dumbledore, you, with 
your talk of closer international wizarding links, of 
rebuilding old ties, of forgetting old differences — 
here’s what I think of you!” Karkaroff spat onto the ground at Dumbledore’s feet. 
In one swift movement, Hagrid seized the front of 
Karkaroff’s furs, lifted him into the air, and slammed 
him against a nearby tree. “Apologize!” Hagrid snarled as Karkaroff gasped for 
breath, Hagrid’s massive fist at his throat, his feet 
dangling in midair. “Hagrid, no\” Dumbledore shouted, his eyes flashing. Hagrid removed the hand pinning Karkaroff to the 
tree, and Karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk 
and slumped in a huddle at its roots; a few twigs and 
leaves showered down upon his head. “Kindly escort Harry back up to the castle, Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore sharply. Breathing heavily, Hagrid gave Karkaroff a glowering 
look. “Maybe I’d better stay here, Headmaster. ...” “You will take Harry back to school, Hagrid,” 
Dumbledore repeated firmly. “Take him right up to 
Gryffindor Tower. And Harry — I want you to stay 
there. Anything you might want to do — any owls you 
might want to send — they can wait until morning, do 
you understand me?” Page | 621 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Er — yes,” said Harry, staring at him. How had 
Dumbledore known that, at that very moment, he had 
been thinking about sending Pigwidgeon straight to 
Sirius, to tell him what had happened? “Ill leave Fang with yeh, Headmaster,” Hagrid said, 
staring menacingly at Karkaroff, who was still 
sprawled at the foot of the tree, tangled in furs and 
tree roots. “Stay, Fang. C’mon, Harry.” They marched in silence past the Beauxbatons 
carriage and up toward the castle. “How dare he,” Hagrid growled as they strode past the 
lake. “How dare he accuse Dumbledore. Like 
Dumbledore ’d do anythin’ like that. Like Dumbledore 
wanted you in the tournament in the firs’ place. 
Worried! I dunno when I seen Dumbledore more 
worried than he’s bin lately. An’ you!” Hagrid 
suddenly said angrily to Harry, who looked up at him, 
taken aback. “What were yeh doin’, wanderin’ off with 
ruddy Krum? He’s from Durmstrang, Harry! Coulda 
jinxed yeh right there, couldn’ he? Hasn’ Moody 
taught yeh nothin’? ’Magine lettin’ him lure yeh off on 
yer own — ” “Krum’s all right!” said Harry as they climbed the 
steps into the entrance hall. “He wasn’t trying to jinx 
me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione — ” “I’ll be havin’ a few words with her, an’ all,” said 
Hagrid grimly, stomping up the stairs. “The less you 
lot ’ave ter do with these foreigners, the happier yeh’ll 
be. Yeh can’ trust any of ’em.” “You were getting on all right with Madame Maxime,” 
Harry said, annoyed. Page | 622 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Don’ you talk ter me abou’ her!” said Hagrid, and he 
looked quite frightening for a moment. “I’ve got her 
number now! Tryin’ ter get back in me good books, 
tryin’ ter get me ter tell her what’s cornin’ in the third 
task. Ha! You can’ trust any of ’em!” Hagrid was in such a bad mood, Harry was quite glad 
to say good-bye to him in front of the Fat Lady. He 
clambered through the portrait hole into the common 
room and hurried straight for the corner where Ron 
and Hermione were sitting, to tell them what had 
happened. Page | 623 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling z? THE DREAM “It comes down to this,” said Hermione, rubbing her 
forehead. “Either Mr. Crouch attacked Viktor, or 
somebody else attacked both of them when Viktor 
wasn’t looking.” “It must’ve been Crouch,” said Ron at once. “That’s 
why he was gone when Harry and Dumbledore got 
there. He’d done a runner.” “I don’t think so,” said Harry, shaking his head. “He 
seemed really weak — I don’t reckon he was up to 
Disapparating or anything.” “You can’t Disapparate on the Hogwarts grounds, 
haven’t I told you enough times?” said Hermione. “Okay ... how’s this for a theory,” said Ron excitedly. 
“Krum attacked Crouch — no, wait for it — and then 
Stunned himself!” “And Mr. Crouch evaporated, did he?” said Hermione 
coldly. Page | 624 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Oh yeah ...” It was daybreak. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had crept 
out of their dormitories very early and hurried up to 
the Owlery together to send a note to Sirius. Now they 
were standing looking out at the misty grounds. All 
three of them were puffy-eyed and pale because they 
had been talking late into the night about Mr. Crouch. “Just go through it again, Harry,” said Hermione. 
“What did Mr. Crouch actually say?” “I’ve told you, he wasn’t making much sense,” said 
Harry. “He said he wanted to warn Dumbledore about 
something. He definitely mentioned Bertha Jorkins, 
and he seemed to think she was dead. He kept saying 
stuff was his fault. ... He mentioned his son.” “Well, that was his fault,” said Hermione testily. “He was out of his mind,” said Harry. “Half the time 
he seemed to think his wife and son were still alive, 
and he kept talking to Percy about work and giving 
him instructions.” “And ... remind me what he said about You-Know- 
Who?” said Ron tentatively. “I’ve told you,” Harry repeated dully. “He said he’s 
getting stronger.” There was a pause. Then Ron said in a falsely 
confident voice, “But he was out of his mind, like you 
said, so half of it was probably just raving. ...” “He was sanest when he was trying to talk about 
Voldemort,” said Harry, and Ron winced at the sound 
of the name. “He was having real trouble stringing Page | 625 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling two words together, but that was when he seemed to 
know where he was, and know what he wanted to do. 
He just kept saying he had to see Dumbledore.” Harry turned away from the window and stared up 
into the rafters. The many perches were half-empty; 
every now and then, another owl would swoop in 
through one of the windows, returning from its night’s 
hunting with a mouse in its beak. “If Snape hadn’t held me up,” Harry said bitterly, “we 
might’ve got there in time. The headmaster is busy, 
Potter ... what’s this rubbish, Potter?’ Why couldn’t he 
have just got out of the way?” “Maybe he didn’t want you to get there!” said Ron 
quickly. “Maybe — hang on — how fast d’you reckon 
he could’ve gotten down to the forest? D’you reckon 
he could’ve beaten you and Dumbledore there?” “Not unless he can turn himself into a bat or 
something,” said Harry. “Wouldn’t put it past him,” Ron muttered. “We need to see Professor Moody,” said Hermione. “We need to find out whether he found Mr. Crouch.” “If he had the Marauder’s Map on him, it would’ve 
been easy,” said Harry. “Unless Crouch was already outside the grounds,” 
said Ron, “because it only shows up to the 
boundaries, doesn’t — ” “Shh!” said Hermione suddenly. Page | 626 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Somebody was climbing the steps up to the Owlery. 
Harry could hear two voices arguing, coming closer 
and closer. “ — that’s blackmail, that is, we could get into a lot of 
trouble for that — ” “ — we’ve tried being polite; it’s time to play dirty, like 
him. He wouldn’t like the Ministry of Magic knowing 
what he did — ” “I’m telling you, if you put that in writing, it’s 
blackmail!” “Yeah, and you won’t be complaining if we get a nice 
fat payoff, will you?” The Owlery door banged open. Fred and George came 
over the threshold, then froze at the sight of Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione. “What’re you doing here?” Ron and Fred said at the 
same time. “Sending a letter,” said Harry and George in unison. 
“What, at this time?” said Hermione and Fred. Fred grinned. “Fine — we won’t ask you what you’re doing, if you 
don’t ask us,” he said. He was holding a sealed envelope in his hands. Harry 
glanced at it, but Fred, whether accidentally or on 
purpose, shifted his hand so that the name on it was 
covered. Page | 627 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Well, don’t let us hold you up,” Fred said, making a 
mock bow and pointing at the door. Ron didn’t move. “Who’re you blackmailing?” he said. The grin vanished from Fred’s face. Harry saw George 
half glance at Fred, before smiling at Ron. “Don’t be stupid, I was only joking,” he said easily. “Didn’t sound like that,” said Ron. Fred and George looked at each other. Then Fred said 
abruptly, “I’ve told you before, Ron, keep your nose 
out if you like it the shape it is. Can’t see why you 
would, but — ” “It’s my business if you’re blackmailing someone,” 
said Ron. “George’s right, you could end up in serious 
trouble for that.” “Told you, I was joking,” said George. He walked over 
to Fred, pulled the letter out of his hands, and began 
attaching it to the leg of the nearest barn owl. “You’re 
starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, 
you are, Ron. Carry on like this and you’ll be made a 
prefect.” “No, I won’t!” said Ron hotly. George carried the barn owl over to the window and it 
took off. George turned around and grinned at Ron. “Well, stop telling people what to do then. See you 
later.” He and Fred left the Owlery. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione stared at one another. Page | 628 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “You don’t think they know something about all this, 
do you?” Hermione whispered. “About Crouch and 
everything?” “No,” said Harry. “If it was something that serious, 
they’d tell someone. They’d tell Dumbledore.” Ron, however, was looking uncomfortable. “What’s the matter?” Hermione asked him. “Well ...” said Ron slowly, “I dunno if they would. 
They’re ... they’re obsessed with making money lately, I noticed it when I was hanging around with them — 
when — you know — ” “We weren’t talking.” Harry finished the sentence for 
him. “Yeah, but blackmail ...” “It’s this joke shop idea they’ve got,” said Ron. “I 
thought they were only saying it to annoy Mum, but 
they really mean it, they want to start one. They’ve 
only got a year left at Hogwarts, they keep going on 
about how it’s time to think about their future, and 
Dad can’t help them, and they need gold to get 
started.” Hermione was looking uncomfortable now. “Yes, but ... they wouldn’t do anything against the law 
to get gold.” “Wouldn’t they?” said Ron, looking skeptical. “I dunno 
... they don’t exactly mind breaking rules, do they?” “Yes, but this is the law,” said Hermione, looking 
scared. “This isn’t some silly school rule. ... They’ll get 
a lot more than detention for blackmail! Ron ... maybe 
you’d better tell Percy. ...” Page | 629 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Are you mad?” said Ron. “Tell Percy? He’d probably 
do a Crouch and turn them in.” He stared at the 
window through which Fred and Georges owl had 
departed, then said, “Come on, let’s get some 
breakfast.” “D’you think it’s too early to go and see Professor 
Moody?” Hermione said as they went down the spiral 
staircase. “Yes,” said Harry. “He’d probably blast us through the 
door if we wake him at the crack of dawn; he’ll think 
we’re trying to attack him while he’s asleep. Let’s give 
it till break.” History of Magic had rarely gone so slowly. Harry kept 
checking Ron’s watch, having finally discarded his 
own, but Ron’s was moving so slowly he could have 
sworn it had stopped working too. All three of them 
were so tired they could happily have put their heads 
down on the desks and slept; even Hermione wasn’t 
taking her usual notes, but was sitting with her head 
on her hand, gazing at Professor Binns with her eyes 
out of focus. When the bell finally rang, they hurried out into the 
corridors toward the Dark Arts classroom and found 
Professor Moody leaving it. He looked as tired as they 
felt. The eyelid of his normal eye was drooping, giving 
his face an even more lopsided appearance than 
usual. “Professor Moody?” Harry called as they made their 
way toward him through the crowd. “Hello, Potter,” growled Moody. His magical eye 
followed a couple of passing first years, who sped up, 
looking nervous; it rolled into the back of Moody’s Page | 630 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling head and watched them around the corner before he 
spoke again. “Come in here.” He stood back to let them into his empty classroom, 
limped in after them, and closed the door. “Did you find him?” Harry asked without preamble. 
“Mr. Crouch?” “No,” said Moody. He moved over to his desk, sat 
down, stretched out his wooden leg with a slight 
groan, and pulled out his hip flask. “Did you use the map?” Harry said. “Of course,” said Moody, taking a swig from his flask. 
“Took a leaf out of your book, Potter. Summoned it 
from my office into the forest. He wasn’t anywhere on 
there.” “So he did Disapparate?” said Ron. “You can’t Disapparate on the grounds, Ron\” said 
Hermione. “There are other ways he could have 
disappeared, aren’t there, Professor?” Moody’s magical eye quivered as it rested on 
Hermione. “You’re another one who might think about 
a career as an Auror,” he told her. “Mind works the 
right way, Granger.” Hermione flushed pink with pleasure. “Well, he wasn’t invisible,” said Harry. “The map 
shows invisible people. He must’ve left the grounds, 
then.” Page | 631 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “But under his own steam?” said Hermione eagerly, “or because someone made him?” “Yeah, someone could’ve — could’ve pulled him onto a 
broom and flown off with him, couldn’t they?” said 
Ron quickly, looking hopefully at Moody as if he too 
wanted to be told he had the makings of an Auror. “We can’t rule out kidnap,” growled Moody. “So,” said Ron, “d’you reckon he’s somewhere in 
Hogsmeade?” “Could be anywhere,” said Moody, shaking his head. 
“Only thing we know for sure is that he’s not here.” He yawned widely, so that his scars stretched, and 
his lopsided mouth revealed a number of missing 
teeth. Then he said, “Now, Dumbledore’s told me you 
three fancy yourselves as investigators, but there’s 
nothing you can do for Crouch. The Ministry’ll be 
looking for him now, Dumbledore’s notified them. 
Potter, you just keep your mind on the third task.” “What?” said Harry. “Oh yeah ...” He hadn’t given the maze a single thought since he’d 
left it with Krum the previous night. “Should be right up your street, this one,” said 
Moody, looking up at Harry and scratching his 
scarred and stubbly chin. “From what Dumbledore’s 
said, you’ve managed to get through stuff like this 
plenty of times. Broke your way through a series of 
obstacles guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone in your first 
year, didn’t you?” “We helped,” Ron said quickly. “Me and Hermione 
helped.” Page | 632 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling Moody grinned. “Well, help him practice for this one, and I’ll be very 
surprised if he doesn’t win,” said Moody. “In the 
meantime ... constant vigilance, Potter. Constant 
vigilance.” He took another long draw from his hip 
flask, and his magical eye swiveled onto the window. 
The topmost sail of the Durmstrang ship was visible 
through it. “You two,” counseled Moody, his normal eye on Ron 
and Hermione, “you stick close to Potter, all right? I’m 
keeping an eye on things, but all the same ... you can 
never have too many eyes out.” •k k k Sirius sent their owl back the very next morning. It 
fluttered down beside Harry at the same moment that 
a tawny owl landed in front of Hermione, clutching a 
copy of the Daily Prophet in its beak. She took the 
newspaper, scanned the first few pages, said, “Ha! She hasn’t got wind of Crouch!” then joined Ron and 
Harry in reading what Sirius had to say on the 
mysterious events of the night before last. Harry — what do you think you are playing at, 
walking off into the forest with Viktor Krum? I want 
you to swear, by return owl, that you are not going to 
go walking with anyone else at night. There is 
somebody highly dangerous at Hogwarts. It is clear to 
me that they wanted to stop Crouch from seeing 
Dumbledore and you were probably feet away from 
them in the dark. You could have been killed. Your name didn’t get into the Goblet of Fire by 
accident. If someone’s trying to attack you, they’re on Page | 633 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling their last chance. Stay close to Ron and Hermione, do 
not leave Gryffindor Tower after hours, and arm 
yourself for the third task. Practice Stunning and 
Disarming. A few hexes wouldn’t go amiss either. 
There’s nothing you can do about Crouch. Keep your 
head down and look after yourself. I’m waiting for your 
letter giving me your word you won’t stray out-of- 
bounds again. Sirius “Who’s he, to lecture me about being out-of-bounds?” 
said Harry in mild indignation as he folded up Sirius’s 
letter and put it inside his robes. “After all the stuff he 
did at school!” “He’s worried about you!” said Hermione sharply. “Just like Moody and Hagrid! So listen to them!” “No one’s tried to attack me all year,” said Harry. “No 
one’s done anything to me at all — ” “Except put your name in the Goblet of Fire,” said 
Hermione. “And they must’ve done that for a reason, 
Harry. Snuffles is right. Maybe they’ve been biding 
their time. Maybe this is the task they’re going to get 
you.” “Look,” said Harry impatiently, “let’s say Sirius is 
right, and someone Stunned Krum to kidnap Crouch. 
Well, they would’ve been in the trees near us, 
wouldn’t they? But they waited till I was out of the 
way until they acted, didn’t they? So it doesn’t look 
like I’m their target, does it?” “They couldn’t have made it look like an accident if 
they’d murdered you in the forest!” said Hermione. 
“But if you die during a task — ” Page | 634 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “They didn’t care about attacking Krum, did they?” 
said Harry. “Why didn’t they just polish me off at the 
same time? They could’ve made it look like Krum and 
I had a duel or something.” “Harry, I don’t understand it either,” said Hermione 
desperately. “I just know there are a lot of odd things 
going on, and I don’t like it. ... Moody’s right — Sirius 
is right — you’ve got to get in training for the third 
task, straight away. And you make sure you write 
back to Sirius and promise him you’re not going to go 
sneaking off alone again.” The Hogwarts grounds never looked more inviting 
than when Harry had to stay indoors. For the next 
few days he spent all of his free time either in the 
library with Hermione and Ron, looking up hexes, or 
else in empty classrooms, which they sneaked into to 
practice. Harry was concentrating on the Stunning 
Spell, which he had never used before. The trouble 
was that practicing it involved certain sacrifices on 
Ron’s and Hermione ’s part. “Can’t we kidnap Mrs. Norris?” Ron suggested on 
Monday lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the 
middle of their Charms classroom, having just been 
Stunned and reawoken by Harry for the fifth time in a 
row. “Let’s Stun her for a bit. Or you could use 
Dobby, Harry, I bet he’d do anything to help you. I’m 
not complaining or anything” — he got gingerly to his 
feet, rubbing his backside — “but I’m aching all over. “Well, you keep missing the cushions, don’t you!” said 
Hermione impatiently, rearranging the pile of 
cushions they had used for the Banishing Spell, 
which Flitwick had left in a cabinet. “Just try and fall 
backward!” Page | 635 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Once you’re Stunned, you can’t aim too well, 
Hermione!” said Ron angrily. “Why don’t you take a 
turn?” “Well, I think Harry’s got it now, anyway,” said 
Hermione hastily. “And we don’t have to worry about 
Disarming, because he’s been able to do that for ages. 
... I think we ought to start on some of these hexes 
this evening.” She looked down the list they had made in the 
library. “I like the look of this one,” she said, “this 
Impediment Curse. Should slow down anything that’s 
trying to attack you, Harry. We’ll start with that one.” The bell rang. They hastily shoved the cushions back 
into Flitwick’s cupboard and slipped out of the 
classroom. “See you at dinner!” said Hermione, and she set off for 
Arithmancy, while Harry and Ron headed toward 
North Tower, and Divination. Broad strips of dazzling 
gold sunlight fell across the corridor from the high 
windows. The sky outside was so brightly blue it 
looked as though it had been enameled. “It’s going to be boiling in Trelawney’s room, she never 
puts out that fire,” said Ron as they started up the 
staircase toward the silver ladder and the trapdoor. He was quite right. The dimly lit room was 
swelteringly hot. The fumes from the perfumed fire 
were heavier than ever. Harry’s head swam as he 
made his way over to one of the curtained windows. 
While Professor Trelawney was looking the other way, 
disentangling her shawl from a lamp, he opened it an 
inch or so and settled back in his chintz armchair, so 
Page | 636 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling that a soft breeze played across his face. It was 
extremely comfortable. “My dears,” said Professor Trelawney, sitting down in 
her winged armchair in front of the class and peering 
around at them all with her strangely enlarged eyes, 
“we have almost finished our work on planetary 
divination. Today, however, will be an excellent 
opportunity to examine the effects of Mars, for he is 
placed most interestingly at the present time. If you 
will all look this way, I will dim the lights. ...” She waved her wand and the lamps went out. The fire 
was the only source of light now. Professor Trelawney 
bent down and lifted, from under her chair, a 
miniature model of the solar system, contained within 
a glass dome. It was a beautiful thing; each of the 
moons glimmered in place around the nine planets 
and the fiery sun, all of them hanging in thin air 
beneath the glass. Harry watched lazily as Professor 
Trelawney began to point out the fascinating angle 
Mars was making to Neptune. The heavily perfumed 
fumes washed over him, and the breeze from the 
window played across his face. He could hear an 
insect humming gently somewhere behind the 
curtain. His eyelids began to droop. ... He was riding on the back of an eagle owl, soaring 
through the clear blue sky toward an old, ivy-covered 
house set high on a hillside. Lower and lower they 
flew, the wind blowing pleasantly in Harry’s face, until 
they reached a dark and broken window in the upper 
story of the house and entered. Now they were flying 
along a gloomy passageway, to a room at the very end 
. . . through the door they went, into a dark room 
whose windows were boarded up. ... Harry had left the owl’s back ... he was watching, 
now, as it fluttered across the room, into a chair with Page | 637 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling its back to him. ... There were two dark shapes on the 
floor beside the chair . . . both of them were stirring. . . . One was a huge snake . . . the other was a man ... a 
short, balding man, a man with watery eyes and a 
pointed nose ... he was wheezing and sobbing on the 
hearth rug. . . . “You are in luck, Wormtail,” said a cold, high-pitched 
voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl 
had landed. “You are very fortunate indeed. Your 
blunder has not ruined everything. He is dead.” “My Lord!” gasped the man on the floor. “My Lord, I 
am ... 1 am so pleased ... and so sorry. ...” “Nagini,” said the cold voice, “you are out of luck. 1 
will not be feeding Wormtail to you, after all ... but 
never mind, never mind . . . there is still Harry Potter. The snake hissed. Harry could see its tongue 
fluttering. “Now, Wormtail,” said the cold voice, “perhaps one 
more little reminder why I will not tolerate another 
blunder from you. ...” “My Lord ... no ... I beg you ...” The tip of a wand emerged from around the back of 
the chair, ft was pointing at Wormtail. “Crucio\” said the cold voice. Wormtail screamed, screamed as though every nerve 
in his body were on fire, the screaming filled Harry’s 
ears as the scar on his forehead seared with pain; he Page | 638 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling was yelling too. ... Voldemort would hear him, would 
know he was there. ... “Harry! Harry\” Harry opened his eyes. He was lying on the floor of 
Professor Trelawney’s room with his hands over his 
face. His scar was still burning so badly that his eyes 
were watering. The pain had been real. The whole 
class was standing around him, and Ron was 
kneeling next to him, looking terrified. “You all right?” he said. “Of course he isn’t!” said Professor Trelawney, looking 
thoroughly excited. Her great eyes loomed over Harry, 
gazing at him. “What was it, Potter? A premonition? 
An apparition? What did you see?” “Nothing,” Harry lied. He sat up. He could feel himself 
shaking. He couldn’t stop himself from looking 
around, into the shadows behind him; Voldemort’s 
voice had sounded so close. ... “You were clutching your scar!” said Professor 
Trelawney. “You were rolling on the floor, clutching 
your scar! Come now, Potter, I have experience in 
these matters!” Harry looked up at her. “I need to go to the hospital wing, I think,” he said. 
“Bad headache.” “My dear, you were undoubtedly stimulated by the 
extraordinary clairvoyant vibrations of my room!” said 
Professor Trelawney “If you leave now, you may lose 
the opportunity to see further than you have ever — ” Page | 639 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “I don’t want to see anything except a headache cure,” 
said Harry. He stood up. The class backed away. They all looked 
unnerved. “See you later,” Harry muttered to Ron, and he picked 
up his bag and headed for the trapdoor, ignoring 
Professor Trelawney, who was wearing an expression 
of great frustration, as though she had just been 
denied a real treat. When Harry reached the bottom of her stepladder, 
however, he did not set off for the hospital wing. He 
had no intention whatsoever of going there. Sirius 
had told him what to do if his scar hurt him again, 
and Harry was going to follow his advice: He was 
going straight to Dumbledore’s office. He marched 
down the corridors, thinking about what he had seen 
in the dream ... it had been as vivid as the one that 
had awoken him on Privet Drive. ... He ran over the 
details in his mind, trying to make sure he could 
remember them. ... He had heard Voldemort accusing 
Wormtail of making a blunder ... but the owl had 
brought good news, the blunder had been repaired, 
somebody was dead ... so Wormtail was not going to 
be fed to the snake ... he, Harry, was going to be fed 
to it instead. ... Harry had walked right past the stone gargoyle 
guarding the entrance to Dumbledore’s office without 
noticing. He blinked, looked around, realized what he 
had done, and retraced his steps, stopping in front of 
it. Then he remembered that he didn’t know the 
password. “Sherbet lemon?” he tried tentatively. The gargoyle did not move. Page | 640 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Okay,” said Harry, staring at it, “Pear Drop. Er — 
Licorice Wand. Fizzing Whizbee. Drooble’s Best 
Blowing Gum. Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans ... oh 
no, he doesn’t like them, does he? ... oh just open, 
can’t you?” he said angrily. “I really need to see him, 
it’s urgent!” The gargoyle remained immovable. Harry kicked it, achieving nothing but an excruciating 
pain in his big toe. “Chocolate Frog!” he yelled angrily, standing on one 
leg. “Sugar Quill! Cockroach Cluster!” The gargoyle sprang to life and jumped aside. Harry 
blinked. “Cockroach Cluster?” he said, amazed. “I was only 
joking. ...” He hurried through the gap in the walls and stepped 
onto the foot of a spiral stone staircase, which moved 
slowly upward as the doors closed behind him, taking 
him up to a polished oak door with a brass door 
knocker. He could hear voices from inside the office. He 
stepped off the moving staircase and hesitated, 
listening. “Dumbledore, I’m afraid I don’t see the connection, 
don’t see it at all!” It was the voice of the Minister of 
Magic, Cornelius Fudge. “Ludo says Bertha’s perfectly 
capable of getting herself lost. I agree we would have 
expected to have found her by now, but all the same, 
we’ve no evidence of foul play, Dumbledore, none at 
all. As for her disappearance being linked with Barty 
Crouch’s!” Page | 641 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “And what do you thinks happened to Barty Crouch, 
Minister?” said Moody’s growling voice. “I see two possibilities, Alastor,” said Fudge. “Either 
Crouch has finally cracked — more than likely, I’m 
sure you’ll agree, given his personal history — lost his 
mind, and gone wandering off somewhere — ” “He wandered extremely quickly, if that is the case, 
Cornelius,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Or else — well ...” Fudge sounded embarrassed. “Well, I’ll reserve judgment until after I’ve seen the 
place where he was found, but you say it was just 
past the Beauxbatons carriage? Dumbledore, you 
know what that woman is?” “I consider her to be a very able headmistress — and 
an excellent dancer,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Dumbledore, come!” said Fudge angrily. “Don’t you 
think you might be prejudiced in her favor because of 
Hagrid? They don’t all turn out harmless — if, indeed, 
you can call Hagrid harmless, with that monster 
fixation he’s got — ” “I no more suspect Madame Maxime than Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore, just as calmly. “I think it possible 
that it is you who are prejudiced, Cornelius.” “Can we wrap up this discussion?” growled Moody. “Yes, yes, let’s go down to the grounds, then,” said 
Fudge impatiently. “No, it’s not that,” said Moody, “it’s just that Potter 
wants a word with you, Dumbledore. He’s just outside 
the door.” Page | 642 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 