BAGMAN AND CROUCH Harry disentangled himself from Ron and got to his 
feet. They had arrived on what appeared to be a 
deserted stretch of misty moor. In front of them was a 
pair of tired and grumpy-looking wizards, one of 
whom was holding a large gold watch, the other a 
thick roll of parchment and a quill. Both were dressed 
as Muggles, though very inexpertly: The man with the 
watch wore a tweed suit with thigh-length galoshes; 
his colleague, a kilt and a poncho. “Morning, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley, picking up the 
boot and handing it to the kilted wizard, who threw it 
into a large box of used Portkeys beside him; Harry 
could see an old newspaper, an empty drinks can, 
and a punctured football. “Hello there, Arthur,” said Basil wearily. “Not on duty, 
eh? It’s all right for some. ... We’ve been here all 
night. ... You’d better get out of the way, we’ve got a 
big party coming in from the Black Forest at five- 
fifteen. Hang on, I’ll find your campsite. ... Weasley ... 
Weasley ...” He consulted his parchment list. “About a 
Page | 83 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling quarter of a mile’s walk over there, first field you 
come to. Site manager’s called Mr. Roberts. Diggory ... 
second field ... ask for Mr. Payne.” “Thanks, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley, and he beckoned 
everyone to follow him. They set off across the deserted moor, unable to make 
out much through the mist. After about twenty 
minutes, a small stone cottage next to a gate swam 
into view. Beyond it, Harry could just make out the 
ghostly shapes of hundreds and hundreds of tents, 
rising up the gentle slope of a large field toward a 
dark wood on the horizon. They said good-bye to the 
Diggorys and approached the cottage door. A man was standing in the doorway, looking out at 
the tents. Harry knew at a glance that this was the 
only real Muggle for several acres. When he heard 
their footsteps, he turned his head to look at them. “Morning!” said Mr. Weasley brightly. “Morning,” said the Muggle. “Would you be Mr. Roberts?” “Aye, I would,” said Mr. Roberts. “And who’re you?” “Weasley — two tents, booked a couple of days ago?” “Aye,” said Mr. Roberts, consulting a list tacked to the 
door. “You’ve got a space up by the wood there. Just 
the one night?” “That’s it,” said Mr. Weasley. “You’ll be paying now, then?” said Mr. Roberts. Page | 84 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Ah — right — certainly — ” said Mr. Weasley. He 
retreated a short distance from the cottage and 
beckoned Harry toward him. “Help me, Harry,” he 
muttered, pulling a roll of Muggle money from his 
pocket and starting to peel the notes apart. “This 
one’s a — a — a ten? Ah yes, I see the little number 
on it now. ... So this is a five?” “A twenty,” Harry corrected him in an undertone, 
uncomfortably aware of Mr. Roberts trying to catch 
every word. “Ah yes, so it is. ... I don’t know, these little bits of 
paper ...” “You foreign?” said Mr. Roberts as Mr. Weasley 
returned with the correct notes. “Foreign?” repeated Mr. Weasley, puzzled. “You’re not the first one who’s had trouble with 
money,” said Mr. Roberts, scrutinizing Mr. Weasley 
closely. “I had two try and pay me with great gold 
coins the size of hubcaps ten minutes ago.” “Did you really?” said Mr. Weasley nervously. Mr. Roberts rummaged around in a tin for some 
change. “Never been this crowded,” he said suddenly, looking 
out over the misty field again. “Hundreds of pre- 
bookings. People usually just turn up. ...” “Is that right?” said Mr. Weasley, his hand held out 
for his change, but Mr. Roberts didn’t give it to him. “Aye,” he said thoughtfully. “People from all over. 
Loads of foreigners. And not just foreigners. Weirdos, Page | 85 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling you know? There’s a bloke walking ’round in a kilt 
and a poncho.” “Shouldn’t he?” said Mr. Weasley anxiously. “It’s like some sort of ... I dunno ... like some sort of 
rally,” said Mr. Roberts. “They all seem to know each 
other. Like a big party.” At that moment, a wizard in plus-fours appeared out 
of thin air next to Mr. Roberts’s front door. “Obliviate\” he said sharply, pointing his wand at Mr. 
Roberts. Instantly, Mr. Roberts’s eyes slid out of focus, his 
brows unknitted, and a look of dreamy unconcern fell 
over his face. Harry recognized the symptoms of one 
who had just had his memory modified. “A map of the campsite for you,” Mr. Roberts said 
placidly to Mr. Weasley. “And your change.” “Thanks very much,” said Mr. Weasley. The wizard in plus-fours accompanied them toward 
the gate to the campsite. He looked exhausted: His 
chin was blue with stubble and there were deep 
purple shadows under his eyes. Once out of earshot 
of Mr. Roberts, he muttered to Mr. Weasley, “Been 
having a lot of trouble with him. Needs a Memory 
Charm ten times a day to keep him happy. And Ludo 
Bagman’s not helping. Trotting around talking about 
Bludgers and Quaffles at the top of his voice, not a 
worry about anti-Muggle security. Blimey, I’ll be glad 
when this is over. See you later, Arthur.” He Disapparated. Page | 86 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “I thought Mr. Bagman was Head of Magical Games 
and Sports,” said Ginny, looking surprised. “He 
should know better than to talk about Bludgers near 
Muggles, shouldn’t he?” “He should,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling, and leading 
them through the gates into the campsite, “but Ludo’s 
always been a bit ... well ... lax about security. You 
couldn’t wish for a more enthusiastic head of the 
sports department though. He played Quidditch for 
England himself, you know. And he was the best 
Beater the Wimbourne Wasps ever had.” They trudged up the misty field between long rows of 
tents. Most looked almost ordinary; their owners had 
clearly tried to make them as Muggle-like as possible, 
but had slipped up by adding chimneys, or bellpulls, 
or weather vanes. However, here and there was a tent 
so obviously magical that Harry could hardly be 
surprised that Mr. Roberts was getting suspicious. 
Halfway up the field stood an extravagant confection 
of striped silk like a miniature palace, with several 
live peacocks tethered at the entrance. A little farther 
on they passed a tent that had three floors and 
several turrets; and a short way beyond that was a 
tent that had a front garden attached, complete with 
birdbath, sundial, and fountain. “Always the same,” said Mr. Weasley, smiling. “We 
can’t resist showing off when we get together. Ah, 
here we are, look, this is us.” They had reached the very edge of the wood at the top 
of the field, and here was an empty space, with a 
small sign hammered into the ground that read 
WEEZLY. “Couldn’t have a better spot!” said Mr. Weasley 
happily. “The field is just on the other side of the Page | 87 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling wood there, we’re as close as we could be.” He hoisted 
his backpack from his shoulders. “Right,” he said 
excitedly, “no magic allowed, strictly speaking, not 
when we’re out in these numbers on Muggle land. 
We’ll be putting these tents up by hand! Shouldn’t be 
too difficult. ... Muggles do it all the time. ... Here, 
Harry, where do you reckon we should start?” Harry had never been camping in his life; the 
Dursleys had never taken him on any kind of holiday, 
preferring to leave him with Mrs. Figg, an old 
neighbor. However, he and Hermione worked out 
where most of the poles and pegs should go, and 
though Mr. Weasley was more of a hindrance than a 
help, because he got thoroughly overexcited when it 
came to using the mallet, they finally managed to 
erect a pair of shabby two-man tents. All of them stood back to admire their handiwork. 
Nobody looking at these tents would guess they 
belonged to wizards, Harry thought, but the trouble 
was that once Bill, Charlie, and Percy arrived, they 
would be a party of ten. Hermione seemed to have 
spotted this problem too; she gave Harry a quizzical 
look as Mr. Weasley dropped to his hands and knees 
and entered the first tent. “Well be a bit cramped,” he called, “but I think we’ll 
all squeeze in. Come and have a look.” Harry bent down, ducked under the tent flap, and felt 
his jaw drop. He had walked into what looked like an 
old-fashioned, three-room flat, complete with 
bathroom and kitchen. Oddly enough, it was 
furnished in exactly the same sort of style as Mrs. 
Figg’s house: There were crocheted covers on the 
mismatched chairs and a strong smell of cats. Page | 88 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling “Well, it’s not for long,” said Mr. Weasley, mopping his 
bald patch with a handkerchief and peering in at the 
four bunk beds that stood in the bedroom. “I 
borrowed this from Perkins at the office. Doesn’t 
camp much anymore, poor fellow, he’s got lumbago.” He picked up the dusty kettle and peered inside it. 
“Well need water. ...” “There’s a tap marked on this map the Muggle gave 
us,” said Ron, who had followed Harry inside the tent 
and seemed completely unimpressed by its 
extraordinary inner proportions. “It’s on the other 
side of the field.” “Well, why don’t you, Harry, and Hermione go and get 
us some water then” — Mr. Weasley handed over the 
kettle and a couple of saucepans — “and the rest of 
us will get some wood for a fire?” “But we’ve got an oven,” said Ron. “Why can’t we just “Ron, anti-Muggle security!” said Mr. Weasley, his 
face shining with anticipation. “When real Muggles 
camp, they cook on fires outdoors. I’ve seen them at it! 