MALFOY MANOR Harry looked around at the other two, now mere 
outlines in the darkness. He saw Hermione point her 
wand, not toward the outside, but into his face; there 
was a bang, a burst of white light, and he buckled in 
agony, unable to see. He could feel his face swelling 
rapidly under his hands as heavy footfalls 
surrounded him. “Get up, vermin.” Unknown hands dragged Harry roughly off the 
ground. Before he could stop them, someone had 
rummaged through his pockets and removed the 
blackthorn wand. Harry clutched at his excruciatingly 
painful face, which felt unrecognizable beneath his 
fingers, tight, swollen, and puffy as though he had 
suffered some violent allergic reaction. His eyes had 
been reduced to slits through which he could barely 
see; his glasses fell off as he was bundled out of the 
tent; all he could make out were the blurred shapes of 
four or five people wrestling Ron and Hermione 
outside too. Page | 503 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Get — off — her!” Ron shouted. There was the 
unmistakable sound of knuckles hitting flesh: Ron 
grunted in pain and Hermione screamed, “No! Leave 
him alone, leave him alone!” “Your boyfriend’s going to have worse than that done 
to him if he’s on my list,” said the horribly familiar, 
rasping voice. “Delicious girl ... What a treat ... I do 
enjoy the softness of the skin. ...” Harry’s stomach turned over. He knew who this was: 
Fenrir Grey back, the werewolf who was permitted to 
wear Death Eater robes in return for his hired 
savagery. “Search the tent!” said another voice. Harry was thrown facedown onto the ground. A thud 
told him that Ron had been cast down beside him. 
They could hear footsteps and crashes; the men were 
pushing over chairs inside the tent as they searched. “Now, let’s see who we’ve got,” said Greyback’s 
gloating voice from overhead, and Harry was rolled 
over onto his back. A beam of wandlight fell into his 
face and Grey back laughed. “I’ll be needing butterbeer to wash this one down. 
What happened to you, ugly?” Harry did not answer immediately. “I said,” repeated Greyback, and Harry received a 
blow to the diaphragm that made him double over in 
pain, “what happened to you?” “Stung,” Harry muttered. “Been stung.” “Yeah, looks like it,” said a second voice. Page | 504 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “What’s your name?” snarled Greyback. “Dudley,” said Harry. “And your first name?” “I — Vernon. Vernon Dudley.” “Check the list, Scabior,” said Greyback, and Harry 
heard him move sideways to look down at Ron, 
instead. “And what about you, ginger?” “Stan Shunpike,” said Ron. “Like ’ell you are,” said the man called Scabior. “We 
know Stan Shunpike, ’e’s put a bit of work our way.” There was another thud. “I’b Bardy,” said Ron, and Harry could tell that his 
mouth was full of blood. “Bardy Weadley.” “A Weasley?” rasped Greyback. “So you’re related to 
blood traitors even if you’re not a Mudblood. And 
lastly, your pretty little friend ...” The relish in his 
voice made Harry’s flesh crawl. “Easy, Greyback,” said Scabior over the jeering of the 
others. “Oh, I’m not going to bite just yet. We’ll see if she’s a 
bit quicker at remembering her name than Barny. 
Who are you, girly?” “Penelope Clearwater,” said Hermione. She sounded 
terrified, but convincing. “What’s your blood status?” Page | 505 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Half-blood,” said Hermione. “Easy enough to check,” said Scabior. “But the ’ole lot 
of ’em look like they could still be ’ogwarts age — ” “Weh lebt,” said Ron. “Left, ’ave you, ginger?” said Scabior. “And you 
decided to go camping? And you thought, just for a 
laugh, you’d use the Dark Lord’s name?” “Nod a laugh,” said Ron. “Aggiden.” “Accident?” There was more jeering laughter. “You know who used to like using the Dark Lord’s 
name, Weasley?” growled Greyback. “The Order of the 
Phoenix. Mean anything to you?” “Doh.” “Well, they don’t show the Dark Lord proper respect, 
so the name’s been Tabooed. A few Order members 
have been tracked that way. We’ll see. Bind them up 
with the other two prisoners!” Someone yanked Harry up by the hair, dragged him a 
short way, pushed him down into a sitting position, 
then started binding him back-to-back with other 
people. Harry was still half blind, barely able to see 
anything through his puffed-up eyes. When at last 
the man tying them had walked away, Harry 
whispered to the other prisoners. “Anyone still got a wand?” “No,” said Ron and Hermione from either side of him. “This is all my fault. I said the name, I’m sorry — ” Page | 506 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Harry?” It was a new, but familiar, voice, and it came from 
directly behind Harry, from the person tied to 
Hermione’s left. “Dean?” “It is you! If they find out who they’ve got — ! They’re 
Snatchers, they’re only looking for truants to sell for 
gold — ” “Not a bad little haul for one night,” Greyback was 
saying, as a pair of hobnailed boots marched close by 
Harry and they heard more crashes from inside the 
tent. “A Mudblood, a runaway goblin, and three 
truants. You checked their names on the list yet, 
Scabior?” he roared. “Yeah. There’s no Vernon Dudley on ’ere, Greyback.” “Interesting,” said Greyback. “That’s interesting.” He crouched down beside Harry, who saw, through 
the infinitesimal gap left between his swollen eyelids, 
a face covered in matted gray hair and whiskers, with 
pointed brown teeth and sores at the corners of his 
mouth. Greyback smelled as he had done at the top of 
the tower where Dumbledore had died: of dirt, sweat, 
and blood. “So you aren’t wanted, then, Vernon? Or are you on 
that list under a different name? What House were 
you in at Hogwarts?” “Slytherin,” said Harry automatically. Page | 507 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Funny ’ow they all thinks we wants to ’ear that,” 
jeered Scabior out of the shadows. “But none of ’em 
can tell us where the common room is.” “It’s in the dungeons,” said Harry clearly. “You enter 
through the wall. It’s full of skulls and stuff and it’s 
under the lake, so the light’s all green.” There was a short pause. “Well, well, looks like we really ’ave caught a little 
Slytherin,” said Scabior. “Good for you, Vernon, ’cause there ain’t a lot of Mudblood Slytherins. Who’s 
your father?” “He works at the Ministry,” Harry lied. He knew that 
his whole story would collapse with the smallest 
investigation, but on the other hand, he only had 
until his face regained its usual appearance before 
the game was up in any case. “Department of Magical 
Accidents and Catastrophes.” “You know what, Greyback,” said Scabior. “I think 
there is a Dudley in there.” Harry could barely breathe: Could luck, sheer luck, 
get them safely out of this? “Well, well,” said Greyback, and Harry could hear the 
tiniest note of trepidation in that callous voice, and 
knew that Greyback was wondering whether he had 
indeed just attacked and bound the son of a Ministry 
official. Harry’s heart was pounding against the ropes 
around his ribs; he would not have been surprised to 
know that Greyback could see it. “If you’re telling the 
truth, ugly, you’ve got nothing to fear from a trip to 
the Ministry. I expect your father’ll reward us just for 
picking you up.” Page | 508 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “But,” said Harry, his mouth bone dry, “if you just let 
us — ” “Hey!” came a shout from inside the tent. “Look at 
this, Greyback!” A dark figure came bustling toward them, and Harry 
saw a glint of silver in the light of their wands. They 
had found Gryffindor’s sword. “Ve-e-ry nice,” said Greyback appreciatively, taking it 
from his companion. “Oh, very nice indeed. Looks 
goblin-made, that. Where did you get something like 
this?” “It’s my father’s,” Harry lied, hoping against hope that 
it was too dark for Greyback to see the name etched 
just below the hilt. “We borrowed it to cut firewood — ” “ ’ang on a minute, Greyback! Look at this, in the 
Propheti” As Scabior said it, Harry’s scar, which was stretched 
tight across his distended forehead, burned savagely. 
More clearly than he could make out anything around 
him, he saw a towering building, a grim fortress, jet- 
black and forbidding; Voldemort’s thoughts had 
suddenly become razor-sharp again; he was gliding 
toward the gigantic building with a sense of calmly 
euphoric purpose. ... So close ...So close . . . With a huge effort of will Harry closed his mind to 
Voldemort’s thoughts, pulling himself back to where 
he sat, tied to Ron, Hermione, Dean, and Griphook in 
the darkness, listening to Greyback and Scabior. Page | 509 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “ ‘’ermione Granger,’ ” Scabior was saying, “ ‘the 
Mudblood who is known to be traveling with ’arry 
Potter.’ ” Harry’s scar burned in the silence, but he made a 
supreme effort to keep himself present, not to slip 
into Voldemort’s mind. He heard the creak of 
Greyback’s boots as he crouched down in front of 
Hermione. “You know what, little girly? This picture looks a hell 
of a lot like you.” “It isn’t! It isn’t me!” Hermione ’s terrified squeak was as good as a 
confession. “ ‘... known to be traveling with Harry Potter,’ ” 
repeated Grey back quietly. A stillness had settled over the scene. Harry’s scar 
was exquisitely painful, but he struggled with all his 
strength against the pull of Voldemort’s thoughts: It 
had never been so important to remain in his own 
right mind. “Well, this changes things, doesn’t it?” whispered 
Greyback. Nobody spoke: Harry sensed the gang of 
Snatchers watching, frozen, and felt Hermione ’s arm 
trembling against his. Greyback got up and took a 
couple of steps to where Harry sat, crouching down 
again to stare closely at his misshapen features. “What’s that on your forehead, Vernon?” he asked 
softly, his breath foul in Harry’s nostrils as he 
pressed a filthy finger to the taut scar. Page | 510 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Don’t touch it!” Harry yelled; he could not stop 
himself; he thought he might be sick from the pain of 
it. “I thought you wore glasses, Potter?” breathed 
Greyback. “I found glasses!” yelped one of the Snatchers 
skulking in the background. “There was glasses in the 
tent, Greyback, wait — ” And seconds later Harry’s glasses had been rammed 
back onto his face. The Snatchers were closing in 
now, peering at him. “It is!” rasped Greyback. “We’ve caught Potter!” They all took several steps backward, stunned by 
what they had done. Harry, still fighting to remain 
present inside his own splitting head, could think of 
nothing to say: Fragmented visions were breaking 
across the surface of his mind — — He was gliding around the high walls of the black 
fortress — No, he was Harry, tied up and wandless, in grave 
danger — — looking up, up to the topmost window, the highest 
tower — He was Harry, and they were discussing his fate in 
low voices — — Time to fly ... “...to the Ministry?” Page | 511 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “To hell with the Ministry,” growled Greyback. “They’ll 
take the credit, and we won’t get a look in. I say we 
take him straight to You-Know-Who.” “Will you summon ’im? ’ere?” said Scabior, sounding 
awed, terrified. “No,” snarled Greyback, “I haven’t got — they say he’s 
using the Malfoys’ place as a base. We’ll take the boy 
there.” Harry thought he knew why Greyback was not calling 
Voldemort. The werewolf might be allowed to wear 
Death Eater robes when they wanted to use him, but 
only Voldemort’s inner circle were branded with the 
Dark Mark: Greyback had not been granted this 
highest honor. Harry’s scar seared again — — and he rose into the night, flying straight up to the 
window at the very top of the tower — "... completely sure it’s him? ’Cause if it ain’t, 
Greyback, we’re dead.” “Who’s in charge here?” roared Greyback, covering his 
moment of inadequacy. “I say that’s Potter, and him 
plus his wand, that’s two hundred thousand Galleons 
right there! But if you’re too gutless to come along, 
any of you, it’s all for me, and with any luck, I’ll get 
the girl thrown in!” — The window was the merest slit in the black rock, 
not big enough for a man to enter. ...A skeletal figure 
was just visible through it, curled beneath a blanket. . . . 
Dead, or sleeping ... ? Page | 512 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “All right!” said Scabior. “All right, we’re in! And what 
about the rest of ’em, Greyback, what’ll we do with ’em? 