THE WANDMAKER It was like sinking into an old nightmare; for an 
instant Harry knelt again beside Dumbledore’s body 
at the foot of the tallest tower at Hogwarts, but in 
reality he was staring at a tiny body curled upon the 
grass, pierced by Bellatrix’s silver knife. Harry’s voice 
was still saying, “Dobby ... Dobby ...” even though he 
knew that the elf had gone where he could not call 
him back. After a minute or so he realized that they had, after 
all, come to the right place, for here were Bill and 
Fleur, Dean and Luna, gathering around him as he 
knelt over the elf. “Hermione?” he said suddenly. “Where is she?” “Ron’s taken her inside,” said Bill. “She’ll be all right.” Harry looked back down at Dobby. He stretched out a 
hand and pulled the sharp blade from the elf’s body, 
then dragged off his own jacket and covered Dobby in 
it like a blanket. Page | 539 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling The sea was rushing against rock somewhere nearby; 
Harry listened to it while the others talked, discussing 
matters in which he could take no interest, making 
decisions. Dean carried the injured Griphook into the 
house, Fleur hurrying with them; now Bill was 
making suggestions about burying the elf. Harry 
agreed without really knowing what he was saying. As 
he did so, he gazed down at the tiny body, and his 
scar prickled and burned, and in one part of his 
mind, viewed as if from the wrong end of a long 
telescope, he saw Voldemort punishing those they 
had left behind at Malfoy Manor. His rage was 
dreadful and yet Harry’s grief for Dobby seemed to 
diminish it, so that it became a distant storm that 
reached Harry from across a vast, silent ocean. “I want to do it properly,” were the first words of 
which Harry was fully conscious of speaking. “Not by 
magic. Have you got a spade?” And shortly afterward he had set to work, alone, 
digging the grave in the place that Bill had shown him 
at the end of the garden, between bushes. He dug 
with a kind of fury, relishing the manual work, 
glorying in the non-magic of it, for every drop of his 
sweat and every blister felt like a gift to the elf who 
had saved their lives. His scar burned, but he was master of the pain; he 
felt it, yet was apart from it. He had learned control at 
last, learned to shut his mind to Voldemort, the very 
thing Dumbledore had wanted him to learn from 
Snape. Just as Voldemort had not been able to 
possess Harry while Harry was consumed with grief 
for Sirius, so his thoughts could not penetrate Harry 
now, while he mourned Dobby. Grief, it seemed, drove 
Voldemort out ... though Dumbledore, of course, 
would have said that it was love. ... Page | 540 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling On Harry dug, deeper and deeper into the hard, cold 
earth, subsuming his grief in sweat, denying the pain 
in his scar. In the darkness, with nothing but the 
sound of his own breath and the rushing sea to keep 
him company, the things that had happened at the 
Malfoys’ returned to him, the things he had heard 
came back to him, and understanding blossomed in 
the darkness. ... The steady rhythm of his arms beat time with his 
thoughts. Hallows ... Horcruxes ... Hallows ... 
Horcruxes ... Yet he no longer burned with that weird, 
obsessive longing. Loss and fear had snuffed it out: He felt as though he had been slapped awake again. Deeper and deeper Harry sank into the grave, and he 
knew where Voldemort had been tonight, and whom 
he had killed in the topmost cell of Nurmengard, and 
why. ... And he thought of Wormtail, dead because of one 
small unconscious impulse of mercy. . . . Dumbledore 
had foreseen that. ... How much more had he known? Harry lost track of time. He knew only that the 
darkness had lightened a few degrees when he was 
rejoined by Ron and Dean. “How’s Hermione?” “Better,” said Ron. “Fleur’s looking after her.” Harry had his retort ready for when they asked him 
why he had not simply created a perfect grave with 
his wand, but he did not need it. They jumped down 
into the hole he had made with spades of their own, 
and together they worked in silence until the hole 
seemed deep enough. Page | 541 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling Harry wrapped the elf more snugly in his jacket. Ron 
sat on the edge of the grave and stripped off his shoes 
and socks, which he placed upon the elf’s bare feet. 
Dean produced a woolen hat, which Harry placed 
carefully upon Dobby’s head, muffling his batlike 
ears. “We should close his eyes.” Harry had not heard the others coming through the 
darkness. Bill was wearing a traveling cloak, Fleur a 
large white apron, from the pocket of which protruded 
a bottle of what Harry recognized to be Skele-Gro. 
Hermione was wrapped in a borrowed dressing gown, 
pale and unsteady on her feet; Ron put an arm 
around her when she reached him. Luna, who was 
huddled in one of Fleur’s coats, crouched down and 
placed her fingers tenderly upon each of the elf’s 
eyelids, sliding them over his glassy stare. “There,” she said softly. “Now he could be sleeping.” Harry placed the elf into the grave, arranged his tiny 
limbs so that he might have been resting, then 
climbed out and gazed for the last time upon the little 
body. He forced himself not to break down as he 
remembered Dumbledore’s funeral, and the rows and 
rows of golden chairs, and the Minister of Magic in 
the front row, the recitation of Dumbledore’s 
achievements, the stateliness of the white marble 
tomb. He felt that Dobby deserved just as grand a 
funeral, and yet here the elf lay between bushes in a 
roughly dug hole. “I think we ought to say something,” piped up Luna. 
“I’ll go first, shall I?” And as everybody looked at her, she addressed the 
dead elf at the bottom of the grave. Page | 542 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Thank you so much, Dobby, for rescuing me from 
that cellar. It’s so unfair that you had to die, when 
you were so good and brave. I’ll always remember 
what you did for us. I hope you’re happy now.” She turned and looked expectantly at Ron, who 
cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, “Yeah ... 
thanks, Dobby.” “Thanks,” muttered Dean. Harry swallowed. “Good-bye, Dobby,” he said. It was all he could 
manage, but Luna had said it all for him. Bill raised 
his wand, and the pile of earth beside the grave rose 
up into the air and fell neatly upon it, a small, 
reddish mound. “D’you mind if I stay here a moment?” he asked the 
others. They murmured words he did not catch; he felt gentle 
pats upon his back, and then they all traipsed back 
toward the cottage, leaving Harry alone beside the elf. He looked around: There were a number of large 
white stones, smoothed by the sea, marking the edge 
of the flower beds. He picked up one of the largest 
and laid it, pillowlike, over the place where Dobby ’s 
head now rested. He then felt in his pocket for a 
wand. There were two in there. He had forgotten, lost track; 
he could not now remember whose wands these were; 
he seemed to remember wrenching them out of 
someone’s hand. He selected the shorter of the two, 
which felt friendlier in his hand, and pointed it at the 
rock. Page | 543 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling Slowly, under his murmured instruction, deep cuts 
appeared upon the rock’s surface. He knew that 
Hermione could have done it more neatly, and 
probably more quickly, but he wanted to mark the 
spot as he had wanted to dig the grave. When Harry 
stood up again, the stone read: HERE LIES DOBBY, A FREE ELF. He looked down at his handiwork for a few more 
seconds, then walked away, his scar still prickling a 
little, and his mind full of those things that had come 
to him in the grave, ideas that had taken shape in the 
darkness, ideas both fascinating and terrible. They were all sitting in the living room when he 
entered the little hall, their attention focused upon 
Bill, who was talking. The room was light-colored, 
pretty, with a small fire of driftwood burning brightly 
in the fireplace. Harry did not want to drop mud upon 
the carpet, so he stood in the doorway, listening. "... lucky that Ginny’s on holiday. If she’d been at 
Hogwarts, they could have taken her before we 
reached her. Now we know she’s safe too.” He looked around and saw Harry standing there. “I’ve been getting them all out of the Burrow,” he 
explained. “Moved them to Muriel’s. The Death Eaters 
know Ron’s with you now, they’re bound to target the 
family — don’t apologize,” he added at the sight of 
Harry’s expression. “It was always a matter of time, 
Dad’s been saying so for months. We’re the biggest 
blood-traitor family there is.” “How are they protected?” asked Harry. Page | 544 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling “Fidelius Charm. Dad’s Secret-Keeper. And we’ve 
done it on this cottage too; I’m Secret-Keeper here. 
None of us can go to work, but that’s hardly the most 
important thing now. Once Ollivander and Griphook 
are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too. 
There isn’t much room here, but she’s got plenty. 
Griphook’s legs are on the mend, Fleur’s given him 
Skele-Gro; we could probably move them in an hour or — 