THE BOGGART IN THE WARDROBE Malfoy didn’t reappear in classes until late on 
Thursday morning, when the Slytherins and 
Gryffindors were halfway through double Potions. He 
swaggered into the dungeon, his right arm covered in 
bandages and bound up in a sling, acting, in Harry’s 
opinion, as though he were the heroic survivor of 
some dreadful battle. “How is it, Draco?” simpered Pansy Parkinson. “Does 
it hurt much?” “Yeah,” said Malfoy, putting on a brave sort of 
grimace. But Harry saw him wink at Crabbe and 
Goyle when Pansy had looked away. “Settle down, settle down,” said Professor Snape idly. Harry and Ron scowled at each other; Snape wouldn’t 
have said “settle down” if they’d walked in late, he’d 
have given them detention. But Malfoy had always 
been able to get away with anything in Snape ’s Page | 136 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling classes; Snape was head of Slytherin House, and 
generally favored his own students above all others. They were making a new potion today, a Shrinking 
Solution. Malfoy set up his cauldron right next to 
Harry and Ron, so that they were preparing their 
ingredients on the same table. “Sir,” Malfoy called, “sir, I’ll need help cutting up 
these daisy roots, because of my arm — ” “Weasley, cut up Malfoy’s roots for him,” said Snape 
without looking up. Ron went brick red. “There’s nothing wrong with your arm,” he hissed at 
Malfoy. Malfoy smirked across the table. “Weasley, you heard Professor Snape; cut up these 
roots.” Ron seized his knife, pulled Malfoy’s roots toward 
him, and began to chop them roughly, so that they 
were all different sizes. “Professor,” drawled Malfoy, “Weasley’s mutilating my 
roots, sir.” Snape approached their table, stared down his 
hooked nose at the roots, then gave Ron an 
unpleasant smile from beneath his long, greasy black 
hair. “Change roots with Malfoy, Weasley.” “But, sir — !” Page | 137 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Ron had spent the last quarter of an hour carefully 
shredding his own roots into exactly equal pieces. “Now,” said Snape in his most dangerous voice. Ron shoved his own beautifully cut roots across the 
table at Malfoy, then took up the knife again. “And, sir, 111 need this shrivelfig skinned,” said 
Malfoy, his voice full of malicious laughter. “Potter, you can skin Malfoy’s shrivelfig,” said Snape, 
giving Harry the look of loathing he always reserved 
just for him. Harry took Malfoy’s shrivelfig as Ron began trying to 
repair the damage to the roots he now had to use. 
Harry skinned the shrivelfig as fast as he could and 
flung it back across the table at Malfoy without 
speaking. Malfoy was smirking more broadly than 
ever. “Seen your pal Hagrid lately?” he asked them quietly. “None of your business,” said Ron jerkily, without 
looking up. “I’m afraid he won’t be a teacher much longer,” said 
Malfoy in a tone of mock sorrow. “Father’s not very 
happy about my injury — ” “Keep talking, Malfoy, and I’ll give you a real injury,” 
snarled Ron. “ — he’s complained to the school governors. And to 
the Ministry of Magic. Father’s got a lot of influence, 
you know. And a lasting injury like this” — he gave a 
huge, fake sigh — “who knows if my arm’ll ever be the 
same again?” Page | 138 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “So that’s why you’re putting it on,” said Harry, 
accidentally beheading a dead caterpillar because his 
hand was shaking in anger. “To try to get Hagrid 
fired.” “Well,” said Malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, “ partly , Potter. But there are other benefits too. 
Weasley, slice my caterpillars for me.” A few cauldrons away, Neville was in trouble. Neville 
regularly went to pieces in Potions lessons; it was his 
worst subject, and his great fear of Professor Snape 
made things ten times worse. His potion, which was 
supposed to be a bright, acid green, had turned — “Orange, Longbottom,” said Snape, ladling some up 
and allowing it to splash back into the cauldron, so 
that everyone could see. “Orange. Tell me, boy, does 
anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? Didn’t 
you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one rat 
spleen was needed? Didn’t I state plainly that a dash 
of leech juice would suffice? What do I have to do to 
make you understand, Longbottom?” Neville was pink and trembling. He looked as though 
he was on the verge of tears. “Please, sir,” said Hermione, “please, I could help 
Neville put it right — ” “I don’t remember asking you to show off, Miss 
Granger,” said Snape coldly, and Hermione went as 
pink as Neville. “Longbottom, at the end of this lesson 
we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad 
and see what happens. Perhaps that will encourage 
you to do it properly.” Snape moved away, leaving Neville breathless with 
fear. Page | 139 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Help me!” he moaned to Hermione. “Hey, Harry,” said Seamus Finnigan, leaning over to 
borrow Harry’s brass scales, “have you heard? Daily 
Prophet this morning — they reckon Sirius Black’s 
been sighted.” “Where?” said Harry and Ron quickly. On the other 
side of the table, Malfoy looked up, listening closely. “Not too far from here,” said Seamus, who looked 
excited. “It was a Muggle who saw him. ’Course, she 
didn’t really understand. The Muggles think he’s just 
an ordinary criminal, don’t they? So she phoned the 
telephone hot line. By the time the Ministry of Magic 
got there, he was gone.” “Not too far from here ... ,” Ron repeated, looking 
significantly at Harry. He turned around and saw 
Malfoy watching closely. “What, Malfoy? Need 
something else skinned?” But Malfoy’s eyes were shining malevolently, and they 
were fixed on Harry. He leaned across the table. “Thinking of trying to catch Black single-handed, 
Potter?” “Yeah, that’s right,” said Harry offhandedly. Malfoy’s thin mouth was curving in a mean smile. “Of course, if it was me,” he said quietly, “I’d have 
done something before now. I wouldn’t be staying in 
school like a good boy, I’d be out there looking for 
him.” “What are you talking about, Malfoy?” said Ron 
roughly. Page | 140 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Don’t you know, Potter?” breathed Malfoy, his pale 
eyes narrowed. “Know what?” Malfoy let out a low, sneering laugh. “Maybe you’d rather not risk your neck,” he said. 
“Want to leave it to the dementors, do you? But if it 
was me, I’d want revenge. I’d hunt him down myself.” “ What are you talking about?” said Harry angrily, but 
at that moment Snape called, “You should have 
finished adding your ingredients by now; this potion 
needs to stew before it can be drunk, so clear away 
while it simmers and then we’ll test Longbottom’s. ...” Crabbe and Goyle laughed openly, watching Neville 
sweat as he stirred his potion feverishly. Hermione 
was muttering instructions to him out of the corner of 
her mouth, so that Snape wouldn’t see. Harry and 
Ron packed away their unused ingredients and went 
to wash their hands and ladles in the stone basin in 
the corner. “What did Malfoy mean?” Harry muttered to Ron as 
he stuck his hands under the icy jet that poured from 
the gargoyle’s mouth. “Why would I want revenge on 
Black? He hasn’t done anything to me — yet.” “He’s making it up,” said Ron savagely. “He’s trying to 
make you do something stupid. ...” The end of the lesson in sight, Snape strode over to 
Neville, who was cowering by his cauldron. “Everyone gather ’round,” said Snape, his black eyes 
glittering, “and watch what happens to Longbottom’s 
toad. If he has managed to produce a Shrinking Page | 141 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Solution, it will shrink to a tadpole. If, as I don’t 
doubt, he has done it wrong, his toad is likely to be 
poisoned.” The Gryffindors watched fearfully. The Slytherins 
looked excited. Snape picked up Trevor the toad in 
his left hand and dipped a small spoon into Neville’s 
potion, which was now green. He trickled a few drops 
down Trevor’s throat. There was a moment of hushed silence, in which 
Trevor gulped; then there was a small pop, and Trevor 
the tadpole was wriggling in Snape ’s palm. The Gryffindors burst into applause. Snape, looking 
sour, pulled a small bottle from the pocket of his 
robe, poured a few drops on top of Trevor, and he 
reappeared suddenly, fully grown. “Five points from Gryffindor,” said Snape, which 
wiped the smiles from every face. “I told you not to 
help him, Miss Granger. Class dismissed.” Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the steps to the 
entrance hall. Harry was still thinking about what 
Malfoy had said, while Ron was seething about 
Snape. “Five points from Gryffindor because the potion was 
all right! Why didn’t you lie, Hermione? You should’ve 
said Neville did it all by himself!” Hermione didn’t answer. Ron looked around. “Where is she?” Harry turned too. They were at the top of the steps 
now, watching the rest of the class pass them, 
heading for the Great Hall and lunch. Page | 142 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “She was right behind us,” said Ron, frowning. Malfoy passed them, walking between Crabbe and 
Goyle. He smirked at Harry and disappeared. “There she is,” said Harry. Hermione was panting slightly, hurrying up the 
stairs; one hand clutched her bag, the other seemed 
to be tucking something down the front of her robes. “How did you do that?” said Ron. “What?” said Hermione, joining them. “One minute you were right behind us, the next 
moment, you were back at the bottom of the stairs 
again.” “What?” Hermione looked slightly confused. “Oh — I 
had to go back for something. Oh no — ” A seam had split on Hermione’s bag. Harry wasn’t 
surprised; he could see that it was crammed with at 
least a dozen large and heavy books. “Why are you carrying all these around with you?” 
Ron asked her. “You know how many subjects I’m taking,” said 
Hermione breathlessly. “Couldn’t hold these for me, 
could you?” “But — ” Ron was turning over the books she had 
handed him, looking at the covers. “You haven’t got 
any of these subjects today. It’s only Defense Against 
the Dark Arts this afternoon.” Page | 143 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Oh yes,” said Hermione vaguely, but she packed all 
the books back into her bag just the same. “I hope 
there’s something good for lunch, I’m starving,” she 
added, and she marched off toward the Great Hall. “D’you get the feeling Hermione ’s not telling us 
something?” Ron asked Harry. Professor Lupin wasn’t there when they arrived at his 
first Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson. They all 
sat down, took out their books, quills, and 
parchment, and were talking when he finally entered 
the room. Lupin smiled vaguely and placed his tatty 
old briefcase on the teacher’s desk. He was as shabby 
as ever but looked healthier than he had on the train, 
as though he had had a few square meals. “Good afternoon,” he said. “Would you please put all 
your books back in your bags. Today’s will be a 
practical lesson. You will need only your wands.” A few curious looks were exchanged as the class put 
away their books. They had never had a practical 
Defense Against the Dark Arts before, unless you 
counted the memorable class last year when their old 
teacher had brought a cageful of pixies to class and 
set them loose. “Right then,” said Professor Lupin, when everyone 
was ready. “If you’d follow me.” Puzzled but interested, the class got to its feet and 
followed Professor Lupin out of the classroom. He led 
them along the deserted corridor and around a 
corner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the 
Poltergeist, who was floating upside down in midair 
and stuffing the nearest keyhole with chewing gum. 
Page | 144 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Peeves didn’t look up until Professor Lupin was two 
feet away; then he wiggled his curly-toed feet and 
broke into song. “Loony, loopy Lupin,” Peeves sang. “Loony, loopy 
Lupin, loony, loopy Lupin — ” Rude and unmanageable as he almost always was, 
Peeves usually showed some respect toward the 
teachers. Everyone looked quickly at Professor Lupin 
to see how he would take this; to their surprise, he 
was still smiling. “I’d take that gum out of the keyhole if I were you, 
Peeves,” he said pleasantly. “Mr. Filch won’t be able to 
get in to his brooms.” Filch was the Hogwarts caretaker, a bad-tempered, 
failed wizard who waged a constant war against the 
students and, indeed, Peeves. However, Peeves paid 
no attention to Professor Lupin’s words, except to 
blow a loud wet raspberry. Professor Lupin gave a small sigh and took out his 
wand. “This is a useful little spell,” he told the class over his 
shoulder. “Please watch closely.” He raised the wand to shoulder height, said, “ Waddiwasil ” and pointed it at Peeves. With the force of a bullet, the wad of chewing gum 
shot out of the keyhole and straight down Peeves ’s left 
nostril; he whirled upright and zoomed away, cursing. “Cool, sir!” said Dean Thomas in amazement. Page | 145 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Thank you, Dean,” said Professor Lupin, putting his 
wand away again. “Shall we proceed?” They set off again, the class looking at shabby 
Professor Lupin with increased respect. He led them 
down a second corridor and stopped, right outside the 
staffroom door. “Inside, please,” said Professor Lupin, opening it and 
standing back. The staffroom, a long, paneled room full of old, 
mismatched chairs, was empty except for one teacher. 
Professor Snape was sitting in a low armchair, and he 
looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were 
glittering and there was a nasty sneer playing around 
his mouth. As Professor Lupin came in and made to 
close the door behind him, Snape said, “Leave it open, 
Lupin. Td rather not witness this.” He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black 
robes billowing behind him. At the doorway he turned 
on his heel and said, “Possibly no one’s warned you, 
Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I 
would advise you not to entrust him with anything 
difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing 
instructions in his ear.” Neville went scarlet. Harry glared at Snape; it was bad 
enough that he bullied Neville in his own classes, let 
alone doing it in front of other teachers. Professor Lupin had raised his eyebrows. “I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the 
first stage of the operation,” he said, “and I am sure 
he will perform it admirably.” Page | 146 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Neville’s face went, if possible, even redder. Snape’s 
lip curled, but he left, shutting the door with a snap. “Now, then,” said Professor Lupin, beckoning the 
class toward the end of the room, where there was 
nothing but an old wardrobe where the teachers kept 
their spare robes. As Professor Lupin went to stand 
next to it, the wardrobe gave a sudden wobble, 
banging off the wall. “Nothing to worry about,” said Professor Lupin calmly 
because a few people had jumped backward in alarm. 
“There’s a boggart in there.” Most people seemed to feel that this was something to 
worry about. Neville gave Professor Lupin a look of 
pure terror, and Seamus Finnigan eyed the now 
rattling doorknob apprehensively. “Boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces,” said Professor 
Lupin. “Wardrobes, the gap beneath beds, the 
cupboards under sinks — I’ve even met one that had 
lodged itself in a grandfather clock. This one moved in 
yesterday afternoon, and I asked the headmaster if 
the staff would leave it to give my third years some 
practice. “So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what 
is a boggart?” Hermione put up her hand. “It’s a shape-shifter,” she said. “It can take the shape 
of whatever it thinks will frighten us most.” “Couldn’t have put it better myself,” said Professor 
Lupin, and Hermione glowed. “So the boggart sitting 
in the darkness within has not yet assumed a form. He does not yet know what will frighten the person on Page | 147 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling the other side of the door. Nobody knows what a 
boggart looks like when he is alone, but when I let 
him out, he will immediately become whatever each of 
us most fears. “This means,” said Professor Lupin, choosing to 
ignore Neville’s small sputter of terror, “that we have a 
huge advantage over the boggart before we begin. Have you spotted it, Harry?” Trying to answer a question with Hermione next to 
him, bobbing up and down on the balls of her feet 
with her hand in the air, was very off-putting, but 
Harry had a go. “Er — because there are so many of us, it won’t know 
what shape it should be?” “Precisely,” said Professor Lupin, and Hermione put 
her hand down, looking a little disappointed. “It’s 
always best to have company when you’re dealing 
with a boggart. He becomes confused. Which should 
he become, a headless corpse or a flesh-eating slug? I 
once saw a boggart make that very mistake — tried to 
frighten two people at once and turned himself into 
half a slug. Not remotely frightening. “The charm that repels a boggart is simple, yet it 
requires force of mind. You see, the thing that really 
finishes a boggart is laughter. What you need to do is 
force it to assume a shape that you find amusing. “We will practice the charm without wands first. After 
me, please ... riddikulusV’ “ RiddikulusV’ said the class together. “Good,” said Professor Lupin. “Very good. But that 
was the easy part, I’m afraid. You see, the word alone Page | 148 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling is not enough. And this is where you come in, 
Neville.” The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as 
Neville, who walked forward as though he were 
heading for the gallows. “Right, Neville,” said Professor Lupin. “First things 
first: what would you say is the thing that frightens 
you most in the world?” Neville’s lips moved, but no noise came out. “Didn’t catch that, Neville, sorry,” said Professor 
Lupin cheerfully. Neville looked around rather wildly, as though 
begging someone to help him, then said, in barely 
more than a whisper, “Professor Snape.” Nearly everyone laughed. Even Neville grinned 
apologetically. Professor Lupin, however, looked 
thoughtful. “Professor Snape ... hmmm ... Neville, I believe you 
live with your grandmother?” “Er — yes,” said Neville nervously. “But — I don’t 
want the boggart to turn into her either.” “No, no, you misunderstand me,” said Professor 
Lupin, now smiling. “I wonder, could you tell us what 
sort of clothes your grandmother usually wears?” Neville looked startled, but said, “Well ... always the 
same hat. A tall one with a stuffed vulture on top. And a long dress ... green, normally ... and sometimes 
a fox-fur scarf.” Page | 149 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “And a handbag?” prompted Professor Lupin. “A big red one,” said Neville. “Right then,” said Professor Lupin. “Can you picture 
those clothes very clearly, Neville? Can you see them 
in your mind’s eye?” “Yes,” said Neville uncertainly, plainly wondering 
what was coming next. “When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it will assume the form of 
Professor Snape,” said Lupin. “And you will raise your 
wand — thus — and cry ‘Riddikulus’ — and 
concentrate hard on your grandmother’s clothes. If all 
goes well, Professor Boggart Snape will be forced into 
that vulture-topped hat, and that green dress, with 
that big red handbag.” There was a great shout of laughter. The wardrobe 
wobbled more violently. “If Neville is successful, the boggart is likely to shift 
his attention to each of us in turn,” said Professor 
Lupin. “I would like all of you to take a moment now 
to think of the thing that scares you most, and 
imagine how you might force it to look comical. ...” The room went quiet. Harry thought ... What scared 
him most in the world? His first thought was Lord Voldemort — a Voldemort 
returned to full strength. But before he had even 
started to plan a possible counterattack on a boggart - 
Voldemort, a horrible image came floating to the 
surface of his mind. ... Page | 150 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling A rotting, glistening hand, slithering back beneath a 
black cloak ... a long, rattling breath from an unseen 
mouth . . . then a cold so penetrating it felt like 
drowning. ... Harry shivered, then looked around, hoping no one 
had noticed. Many people had their eyes shut tight. 
Ron was muttering to himself, “Take its legs off.” 
Harry was sure he knew what that was about. Ron’s 
greatest fear was spiders. “Everyone ready?” said Professor Lupin. Harry felt a lurch of fear. He wasn’t ready. How could 
you make a dementor less frightening? But he didn’t 
want to ask for more time; everyone else was nodding 
and rolling up their sleeves. “Neville, we’re going to back away,” said Professor 
Lupin. “Let you have a clear field, all right? I’ll call the 
next person forward. ... Everyone back, now, so 
Neville can get a clear shot — ” They all retreated, backed against the walls, leaving 
Neville alone beside the wardrobe. He looked pale and 
frightened, but he had pushed up the sleeves of his 
robes and was holding his wand ready. “On the count of three, Neville,” said Professor Lupin, 
who was pointing his own wand at the handle of the 
wardrobe. “One — two — three — now\” A jet of sparks shot from the end of Professor Lupin’s 
wand and hit the doorknob. The wardrobe burst 
open. Hook-nosed and menacing, Professor Snape 
stepped out, his eyes flashing at Neville. Page | 151 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Neville backed away, his wand up, mouthing 
wordlessly. Snape was bearing down upon him, 
reaching inside his robes. “R — r — riddikulusV’ squeaked Neville. There was a noise like a whip crack. Snape stumbled; 
he was wearing a long, lace-trimmed dress and a 
towering hat topped with a moth-eaten vulture, and 
he was swinging a huge crimson handbag. There was a roar of laughter; the boggart paused, 
confused, and Professor Lupin shouted, “Parvati! 
Forward!” Parvati walked forward, her face set. Snape rounded 
on her. There was another crack, and where he had 
stood was a bloodstained, bandaged mummy; its 
sightless face was turned to Parvati and it began to 
walk toward her very slowly, dragging its feet, its stiff 
arms rising — “RiddikulusV’ cried Parvati. A bandage unraveled at the mummy’s feet; it became 
entangled, fell face forward, and its head rolled off. “Seamus!” roared Professor Lupin. Seamus darted past Parvati. Crack ! Where the mummy had been was a woman 
with floor-length black hair and a skeletal, green- 
tinged face — a banshee. She opened her mouth wide 
and an unearthly sound filled the room, a long, 
wailing shriek that made the hair on Harry’s head 
stand on end — “RiddikulusV’ shouted Seamus. Page | 152 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling The banshee made a rasping noise and clutched her 
throat; her voice was gone. Crack). The banshee turned into a rat, which chased 
its tail in a circle, then — crack). — became a 
rattlesnake, which slithered and writhed before — 
crack ! — becoming a single, bloody eyeball. “It’s confused!” shouted Lupin. “We’re getting there! 
Dean!” Dean hurried forward. Crack) The eyeball became a severed hand, which 
flipped over and began to creep along the floor like a 
crab. “RiddikulusV’ yelled Dean. There was a snap, and the hand was trapped in a 
mousetrap. “Excellent! Ron, you next!” Ron leapt forward. Crack) Quite a few people screamed. A giant spider, six feet 
tall and covered in hair, was advancing on Ron, 
clicking its pincers menacingly. For a moment, Harry 
thought Ron had frozen. Then — “RiddikulusV’ bellowed Ron, and the spider’s legs 
vanished; it rolled over and over; Lavender Brown 
squealed and ran out of its way and it came to a halt 
at Harry’s feet. He raised his wand, ready, but — Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Here!” shouted Professor Lupin suddenly, hurrying 
forward. Crack). The legless spider had vanished. For a second, 
everyone looked wildly around to see where it was. 
Then they saw a silvery-white orb hanging in the air 
in front of Lupin, who said, “RiddikulusV’ almost 
lazily. Crack ! “Forward, Neville, and finish him off!” said Lupin as 
the boggart landed on the floor as a cockroach. Crack). 
Snape was back. This time Neville charged forward 
looking determined. “RiddikulusV’ he shouted, and they had a split 
second’s view of Snape in his lacy dress before Neville 
let out a great “Ha!” of laughter, and the boggart 
exploded, burst into a thousand tiny wisps of smoke, 
and was gone. “Excellent!” cried Professor Lupin as the class broke 
into applause. “Excellent, Neville. Well done, 
everyone. ... Let me see ... five points to Gryffindor for 
every person to tackle the boggart — ten for Neville 
because he did it twice . . . and five each to Hermione 
and Harry.” “But I didn’t do anything,” said Harry. “You and Hermione answered my questions correctly 
at the start of the class, Harry,” Lupin said lightly. 
“Very well, everyone, an excellent lesson. Homework, 
kindly read the chapter on boggarts and summarize it 
for me ... to be handed in on Monday. That will be 
all.” Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Talking excitedly, the class left the staffroom. Harry, 
however, wasn’t feeling cheerful. Professor Lupin had 
deliberately stopped him from tackling the boggart. 
Why? Was it because he’d seen Harry collapse on the 
train, and thought he wasn’t up to much? Had he 
thought Harry would pass out again? But no one else seemed to have noticed anything. “Did you see me take that banshee?” shouted 
Seamus. “And the hand!” said Dean, waving his own around. 
“And Snape in that hat!” “And my mummy!” “I wonder why Professor Lupin’s frightened of crystal 
balls?” said Lavender thoughtfully. “That was the best Defense Against the Dark Arts 
lesson we’ve ever had, wasn’t it?” said Ron excitedly 
as they made their way back to the classroom to get 
their bags. “He seems like a very good teacher,” said Hermione 
approvingly. “But I wish I could have had a turn with 
the boggart — ” “What would it have been for you?” said Ron, 
sniggering. “A piece of homework that only got nine 
out of ten?” Page | 155 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling d FLIGHT OF THE FAT LADY In no time at all, Defense Against the Dark Arts had 
become most people’s favorite class. Only Draco 
Malfoy and his gang of Slytherins had anything bad to 
say about Professor Lupin. “Look at the state of his robes,” Malfoy would say in a 
loud whisper as Professor Lupin passed. “He dresses 
like our old house-elf.” But no one else cared that Professor Lupin’s robes 
were patched and frayed. His next few lessons were 
just as interesting as the first. After boggarts, they 
studied Red Caps, nasty little goblinlike creatures 
that lurked wherever there had been bloodshed: in 
the dungeons of castles and the potholes of deserted 
battlefields, waiting to bludgeon those who had gotten 
lost. From Red Caps they moved on to kappas, creepy 
water-dwellers that looked like scaly monkeys, with 
webbed hands itching to strangle unwitting waders in 
their ponds. Harry only wished he was as happy with some of his 
other classes. Worst of all was Potions. Snape was in Page | 156 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling a particularly vindictive mood these days, and no one 
was in any doubt why. The story of the boggart 
assuming Snape’s shape, and the way that Neville 
had dressed it in his grandmother’s clothes, had 
traveled through the school like wildfire. Snape didn’t 
seem to find it funny. His eyes flashed menacingly at 
the very mention of Professor Lupin’s name, and he 
was bullying Neville worse than ever. Harry was also growing to dread the hours he spent 
in Professor Trelawney’s stifling tower room, 
deciphering lopsided shapes and symbols, trying to 
ignore the way Professor Trelawney’s enormous eyes 
filled with tears every time she looked at him. He 
couldn’t like Professor Trelawney, even though she 
was treated with respect bordering on reverence by 
many of the class. Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown 
had taken to haunting Professor Trelawney’s tower 
room at lunchtimes, and always returned with 
annoyingly superior looks on their faces, as though 
they knew things the others didn’t. They had also 
started using hushed voices whenever they spoke to 
Harry, as though he were on his deathbed. Nobody really liked Care of Magical Creatures, which, 
after the action-packed first class, had become 
extremely dull. Hagrid seemed to have lost his 
confidence. They were now spending lesson after 
lesson learning how to look after flobberworms, which 
had to be some of the most boring creatures in 
existence. “Why would anyone bother looking after them?” said 
Ron, after yet another hour of poking shredded 
lettuce down the flobberworms’ slimy throats. At the start of October, however, Harry had 
something else to occupy him, something so enjoyable 
it more than made up for his unsatisfactory classes. Page | 157 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling The Quidditch season was approaching, and Oliver 
Wood, Captain of the Gryffindor team, called a 
meeting one Thursday evening to discuss tactics for 
the new season. There were seven people on a Quidditch team: three 
Chasers, whose job it was to score goals by putting 
the Quaffle (a red, soccer-sized ball) through one of 
the fifty-foot-high hoops at each end of the field; two 
Beaters, who were equipped with heavy bats to repel 
the Bludgers (two heavy black balls that zoomed 
around trying to attack the players); a Keeper, who 
defended the goal posts, and the Seeker, who had the 
hardest job of all, that of catching the Golden Snitch, 
a tiny, winged, walnut-sized ball, whose capture 
ended the game and earned the Seeker’s team an 
extra one hundred and fifty points. Oliver Wood was a burly seventeen-year-old, now in 
his seventh and final year at Hogwarts. There was a 
quiet sort of desperation in his voice as he addressed 
his six fellow team members in the chilly locker rooms 
on the edge of the darkening Quidditch field. “This is our last chance — my last chance — to win 
the Quidditch Cup,” he told them, striding up and 
down in front of them. “I’ll be leaving at the end of 
this year. I’ll never get another shot at it. “Gryffindor hasn’t won for seven years now. Okay, so 
we’ve had the worst luck in the world — injuries — 
then the tournament getting called off last year. ...” 
Wood swallowed, as though the memory still brought 
a lump to his throat. “But we also know we’ve got the 
best — ruddy — team — in — the — school,” he said, 
punching a fist into his other hand, the old manic 
glint back in his eye. “We’ve got three superb Chasers.” Page | 158 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Wood pointed at Alicia Spinnet, Angelina Johnson, 
and Katie Bell. “We’ve got two unbeatable Beaters.” “Stop it, Oliver, you’re embarrassing us,” said Fred 
and George Weasley together, pretending to blush. “And we’ve got a Seeker who has never failed to win 
us a match).” Wood rumbled, glaring at Harry with a 
kind of furious pride. “And me,” he added as an 
afterthought. “We think you’re very good too, Oliver,” said George. “Spanking good Keeper,” said Fred. “The point is,” Wood went on, resuming his pacing, 
“the Quidditch Cup should have had our name on it 
these last two years. Ever since Harry joined the 
team, I’ve thought the thing was in the bag. But we 
haven’t got it, and this year’s the last chance we’ll get 
to finally see our name on the thing. ...” Wood spoke so dejectedly that even Fred and George 
looked sympathetic. “Oliver, this year’s our year,” said Fred. “Well do it, Oliver!” said Angelina. “Definitely,” said Harry. Full of determination, the team started training 
sessions, three evenings a week. The weather was 
getting colder and wetter, the nights darker, but no 
amount of mud, wind, or rain could tarnish Harry’s 
wonderful vision of finally winning the huge, silver 
Quidditch Cup. Page | 159 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Harry returned to the Gryffindor common room one 
evening after training, cold and stiff but pleased with 
the way practice had gone, to find the room buzzing 
excitedly. “What’s happened?” he asked Ron and Hermione, 
who were sitting in two of the best chairs by the 
fireside and completing some star charts for 
Astronomy. “First Hogsmeade weekend,” said Ron, pointing at a 
notice that had appeared on the battered old bulletin 
board. “End of October. Halloween.” “Excellent,” said Fred, who had followed Harry 
through the portrait hole. “I need to visit Zonko’s. I’m 
nearly out of Stink Pellets.” Harry threw himself into a chair beside Ron, his high 
spirits ebbing away. Hermione seemed to read his 
mind. “Harry, I’m sure you’ll be able to go next time,” she 
said. “They’re bound to catch Black soon. He’s been 
sighted once already” “Black’s not fool enough to try anything in 
Hogsmeade,” said Ron. “Ask McGonagall if you can go 
this time, Harry. The next one might not be for ages “Ron\” said Hermione. “Harry’s supposed to stay in 
school — ” “He can’t be the only third year left behind,” said Ron. 
“Ask McGonagall, go on, Harry — ” “Yeah, I think I will,” said Harry, making up his mind. Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Hermione opened her mouth to argue, but at that 
moment Crookshanks leapt lightly onto her lap. A 
large, dead spider was dangling from his mouth. “Does he have to eat that in front of us?” said Ron, 
scowling. “Clever Crookshanks, did you catch that all by 
yourself?” said Hermione. Crookshanks slowly chewed up the spider, his yellow 
eyes fixed insolently on Ron. “Just keep him over there, that’s all,” said Ron 
irritably, turning back to his star chart. “I’ve got 
Scabbers asleep in my bag.” Harry yawned. He really wanted to go to bed, but he 
still had his own star chart to complete. He pulled his 
bag toward him, took out parchment, ink, and quill, 
and started work. “You can copy mine, if you like,” said Ron, labeling 
his last star with a flourish and shoving the chart 
toward Harry. Hermione, who disapproved of copying, pursed her 
lips but didn’t say anything. Crookshanks was still 
staring unblinkingly at Ron, flicking the end of his 
bushy tail. Then, without warning, he pounced. “OY!” Ron roared, seizing his bag as Crookshanks 
sank four sets of claws deep inside it and began 
tearing ferociously. “GET OFF, YOU STUPID ANIMAL!” Ron tried to pull the bag away from Crookshanks, but 
Crookshanks clung on, spitting and slashing. Page | 161 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Ron, don’t hurt him!” squealed Hermione; the whole 
common room was watching; Ron whirled the bag 
around, Crookshanks still clinging to it, and Scabbers 
came flying out of the top — “CATCH THAT CAT!” Ron yelled as Crookshanks freed 
himself from the remnants of the bag, sprang over the 
table, and chased after the terrified Scabbers. George Weasley made a lunge for Crookshanks but 
missed; Scabbers streaked through twenty pairs of 
legs and shot beneath an old chest of drawers. 
Crookshanks skidded to a halt, crouched low on his 
bandy legs, and started making furious swipes 
beneath it with his front paw. Ron and Hermione hurried over; Hermione grabbed 
Crookshanks around the middle and heaved him 
away; Ron threw himself onto his stomach and, with 
great difficulty, pulled Scabbers out by the tail. “Look at him!” he said furiously to Hermione, 
dangling Scabbers in front of her. “He’s skin and 
bone! You keep that cat away from him!” “Crookshanks doesn’t understand it’s wrong!” said 
Hermione, her voice shaking. “All cats chase rats, 
Ron!” “There’s something funny about that animal!” said 
Ron, who was trying to persuade a frantically wiggling 
Scabbers back into his pocket. “It heard me say that 
Scabbers was in my bag!” “Oh, what rubbish,” said Hermione impatiently. 
“Crookshanks could smell him, Ron, how else d’you 
think — ” Page | 162 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “That cat’s got it in for Scabbers!” said Ron, ignoring 
the people around him, who were starting to giggle. 
“And Scabbers was here first, and he’s ill!” Ron marched through the common room and out of 
sight up the stairs to the boys’ dormitories. Ron was still in a bad mood with Hermione next day. 
He barely talked to her all through Herbology, even 
though he, Harry, and Hermione were working 
together on the same puffapod. “How’s Scabbers?” Hermione asked timidly as they 
stripped fat pink pods from the plants and emptied 
the shining beans into a wooden pail. “He’s hiding at the bottom of my bed, shaking,” said 
Ron angrily, missing the pail and scattering beans 
over the greenhouse floor. “Careful, Weasley, careful!” cried Professor Sprout as 
the beans burst into bloom before their very eyes. They had Transfiguration next. Harry, who had 
resolved to ask Professor McGonagall after the lesson 
whether he could go into Hogsmeade with the rest, 
joined the line outside the class trying to decide how 
he was going to argue his case. He was distracted, 
however, by a disturbance at the front of the line. Lavender Brown seemed to be crying. Parvati had her 
arm around her and was explaining something to 
Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas, who were 
looking very serious. “What’s the matter, Lavender?” said Hermione 
anxiously as she, Harry, and Ron went to join the 
group. Page | 163 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “She got a letter from home this morning,” Parvati 
whispered. “It’s her rabbit, Binky. He’s been killed by 
a fox.” “Oh,” said Hermione, “I’m sorry, Lavender.” “I should have known!” said Lavender tragically. “You 
know what day it is?” “Er — ” “The sixteenth of October! That thing you’re dreading, 
it will happen on the sixteenth of October!’ 
Remember? She was right, she was right!” The whole class was gathered around Lavender now. 
Seamus shook his head seriously. Hermione 
hesitated; then she said, “You — you were dreading 
Binky being killed by a fox?” “Well, not necessarily by a fox,” said Lavender, 
looking up at Hermione with streaming eyes, “but I 
was obviously dreading him dying, wasn’t I?” “Oh,” said Hermione. She paused again. Then — “Was Binky an old rabbit?” “N — no!” sobbed Lavender. “H — he was only a 
baby!” Parvati tightened her arm around Lavender’s 
shoulders. “But then, why would you dread him dying?” said 
Hermione. Parvati glared at her. Page | 164 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Well, look at it logically,” said Hermione, turning to 
the rest of the group. “I mean, Binky didn’t even die 
today, did he? Lavender just got the news today — ” 
Lavender wailed loudly. “ — and she can’t have been 
dreading it, because it’s come as a real shock — ” “Don’t mind Hermione, Lavender,” said Ron loudly, 
“she doesn’t think other people’s pets matter very 
much.” Professor McGonagall opened the classroom door at 
that moment, which was perhaps lucky; Hermione 
and Ron were looking daggers at each other, and 
when they got into class, they seated themselves on 
either side of Harry and didn’t talk to each other for 
the whole class. Harry still hadn’t decided what he was going to say to 
Professor McGonagall when the bell rang at the end of 
the lesson, but it was she who brought up the subject 
of Hogsmeade first. “One moment, please!” she called as the class made 
to leave. “As you’re all in my House, you should hand 
Hogsmeade permission forms to me before Halloween. 
No form, no visiting the village, so don’t forget!” Neville put up his hand. “Please, Professor, I — I think I’ve lost — ” “Your grandmother sent yours to me directly, 
Longbottom,” said Professor McGonagall. “She 
seemed to think it was safer. Well, that’s all, you may 
leave.” “Ask her now,” Ron hissed at Harry. “Oh, but — ” Hermione began. Page | 165 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Go for it, Harry,” said Ron stubbornly. Harry waited for the rest of the class to disappear, 
then headed nervously for Professor McGonagall’s 
desk. “Yes, Potter?” Harry took a deep breath. “Professor, my aunt and uncle — er — forgot to sign 
my form,” he said. Professor McGonagall looked over her square 
spectacles at him but didn’t say anything. “So — er — d’you think it would be all right — I 
mean, will it be okay if I — if I go to Hogsmeade?” Professor McGonagall looked down and began 
shuffling papers on her desk. “I’m afraid not, Potter,” she said. “You heard what I 
said. No form, no visiting the village. That’s the rule.” “But — Professor, my aunt and uncle — you know, 
they’re Muggles, they don’t really understand about 
— about Hogwarts forms and stuff,” Harry said, while 
Ron egged him on with vigorous nods. “If you said I 
could go — ” “But I don’t say so,” said Professor McGonagall, 
standing up and piling her papers neatly into a 
drawer. “The form clearly states that the parent or 
guardian must give permission.” She turned to look at 
him, with an odd expression on her face. Was it pity? 
“I’m sorry, Potter, but that’s my final word. You had 
better hurry, or you’ll be late for your next lesson.” Page | 166 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling There was nothing to be done. Ron called Professor 
McGonagall a lot of names that greatly annoyed 
Hermione; Hermione assumed an “all-for-the-best” 
expression that made Ron even angrier, and Harry 
had to endure everyone in the class talking loudly 
and happily about what they were going to do first, 
once they got into Hogsmeade. “There’s always the feast,” said Ron, in an effort to 
cheer Harry up. “You know, the Halloween feast, in 
the evening.” “Yeah,” said Harry gloomily, “great.” The Halloween feast was always good, but it would 
taste a lot better if he was coming to it after a day in 
Hogsmeade with everyone else. Nothing anyone said 
made him feel any better about being left behind. 
Dean Thomas, who was good with a quill, had offered 
to forge Uncle Vernon’s signature on the form, but as 
Harry had already told Professor McGonagall he 
hadn’t had it signed, that was no good. Ron 
halfheartedly suggested the Invisibility Cloak, but 
Hermione stamped on that one, reminding Ron what 
Dumbledore had told them about the dementors 
being able to see through them. Percy had what were 
possibly the least helpful words of comfort. “They make a fuss about Hogsmeade, but I assure 
you, Harry, it’s not all it’s cracked up to be,” he said 
seriously. “All right, the sweetshop’s rather good, and 
Zonko’s Joke Shop’s frankly dangerous, and yes, the 
Shrieking Shack’s always worth a visit, but really, 
Harry, apart from that, you’re not missing anything.” On Halloween morning, Harry awoke with the rest 
and went down to breakfast, feeling thoroughly 
depressed, though doing his best to act normally. Page | 167 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Well bring you lots of sweets back from 
Honeydukes,” said Hermione, looking desperately 
sorry for him. “Yeah, loads,” said Ron. He and Hermione had finally 
forgotten their squabble about Crookshanks in the 
face of Harry’s difficulties. “Don’t worry about me,” said Harry, in what he hoped 
was an offhand voice, “I’ll see you at the feast. Have a 
good time.” He accompanied them to the entrance hall, where 
Filch, the caretaker, was standing inside the front 
doors, checking off names against a long list, peering 
suspiciously into every face, and making sure that no 
one was sneaking out who shouldn’t be going. “Staying here, Potter?” shouted Malfoy, who was 
standing in line with Crabbe and Goyle. “Scared of 
passing the dementors?” Harry ignored him and made his solitary way up the 
marble staircase, through the deserted corridors, and 
back to Gryffindor Tower. “Password?” said the Fat Lady, jerking out of a doze. “Fortuna Major,” said Harry listlessly. The portrait swung open and he climbed through the 
hole into the common room. It was full of chattering 
first and second years, and a few older students, who 
had obviously visited Hogsmeade so often the novelty 
had worn off. “Harry! Harry! Hi, Harry!” Page | 168 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling It was Colin Creevey, a second year who was deeply in 
awe of Harry and never missed an opportunity to 
speak to him. “Aren’t you going to Hogsmeade, Harry? Why not? 
Hey” — Colin looked eagerly around at his friends — 
“you can come and sit with us, if you like, Harry!” “Er — no, thanks, Colin,” said Harry, who wasn’t in 
the mood to have a lot of people staring avidly at the 
scar on his forehead. “I — I’ve got to go to the library, 
got to get some work done.” After that, he had no choice but to turn right around 
and head back out of the portrait hole again. “What was the point waking me up?” the Fat Lady 
called grumpily after him as he walked away. Harry wandered dispiritedly toward the library, but 
halfway there he changed his mind; he didn’t feel like 
working. He turned around and came face-to-face 
with Filch, who had obviously just seen off the last of 
the Hogsmeade visitors. “What are you doing?” Filch snarled suspiciously. “Nothing,” said Harry truthfully. “Nothing!” spat Filch, his jowls quivering 
unpleasantly. “A likely story! Sneaking around on 
your own — why aren’t you in Hogsmeade buying 
Stink Pellets and Belch Powder and Whizzing Worms 
like the rest of your nasty little friends?” Harry shrugged. Page | 169 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Well, get back to your common room where you 
belong!” snapped Filch, and he stood glaring until 
Harry had passed out of sight. But Harry didn’t go back to the common room; he 
climbed a staircase, thinking vaguely of visiting the 
Owlery to see Hedwig, and was walking along another 
corridor when a voice from inside one of the rooms 
said, “Harry?” Harry doubled back to see who had spoken and met 
Professor Lupin, looking around his office door. “What are you doing?” said Lupin, though in a very 
different voice from Filch. “Where are Ron and 
Hermione?” “Hogsmeade,” said Harry, in a would-be casual voice. “Ah,” said Lupin. He considered Harry for a moment. 
“Why don’t you come in? I’ve just taken delivery of a 
grindylow for our next lesson.” “A what?” said Harry. He followed Lupin into his office. In the corner stood a 
very large tank of water. A sickly green creature with 
sharp little horns had its face pressed against the 
glass, pulling faces and flexing its long, spindly 
fingers. “Water demon,” said Lupin, surveying the grindylow 
thoughtfully. “We shouldn’t have much difficulty with 
him, not after the kappas. The trick is to break his 
grip. You notice the abnormally long fingers? Strong, 
but very brittle.” The grindylow bared its green teeth and then buried 
itself in a tangle of weeds in a corner. Page | 170 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Cup of tea?” Lupin said, looking around for his 
kettle. “I was just thinking of making one.” “All right,” said Harry awkwardly. Lupin tapped the kettle with his wand and a blast of 
steam issued suddenly from the spout. “Sit down,” said Lupin, taking the lid off a dusty tin. 
“I’ve only got teabags, I’m afraid — but I daresay 
you’ve had enough of tea leaves?” Harry looked at him. Lupin’s eyes were twinkling. “How did you know about that?” Harry asked. “Professor McGonagall told me,” said Lupin, passing 
Harry a chipped mug of tea. “You’re not worried, are 
you?” “No,” said Harry. He thought for a moment of telling Lupin about the 
dog he’d seen in Magnolia Crescent but decided not 
to. He didn’t want Lupin to think he was a coward, 
especially since Lupin already seemed to think he 
couldn’t cope with a boggart. Something of Harry’s thoughts seemed to have shown 
on his face, because Lupin said, “Anything worrying 
you, Harry?” “No,” Harry lied. He drank a bit of tea and watched 
the grindylow brandishing a fist at him. “Yes,” he said 
suddenly, putting his tea down on Lupin’s desk. “You 
know that day we fought the boggart? “Yes,” said Lupin slowly. Page | 171 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Why didn’t you let me fight it?” said Harry abruptly. 
Lupin raised his eyebrows. “I would have thought that was obvious, Harry,” he 
said, sounding surprised. Harry, who had expected Lupin to deny that he’d 
done any such thing, was taken aback. “Why?” he said again. “Well,” said Lupin, frowning slightly, “I assumed that 
if the boggart faced you, it would assume the shape of 
Lord Voldemort.” Harry stared. Not only was this the last answer he’d 
expected, but Lupin had said Voldemort ’s name. The 
only person Harry had ever heard say the name aloud 
(apart from himself) was Professor Dumbledore. “Clearly, I was wrong,” said Lupin, still frowning at 
Harry. “But I didn’t think it a good idea for Lord 
Voldemort to materialize in the staffroom. I imagined 
that people would panic.” “I didn’t think of Voldemort,” said Harry honestly. “I 
— I remembered those dementors.” “I see,” said Lupin thoughtfully. “Well, well ... I’m 
impressed.” He smiled slightly at the look of surprise 
on Harry’s face. “That suggests that what you fear 
most of all is — fear. Very wise, Harry.” Harry didn’t know what to say to that, so he drank 
some more tea. “So you’ve been thinking that I didn’t believe you 
capable of fighting the boggart?” said Lupin shrewdly. Page | 172 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Well ... yeah,” said Harry. He was suddenly feeling a 
lot happier. “Professor Lupin, you know the 
dementors — ” He was interrupted by a knock on the door. “Come in,” called Lupin. The door opened, and in came Snape. He was 
carrying a goblet, which was smoking faintly, and 
stopped at the sight of Harry, his black eyes 
narrowing. “Ah, Severus,” said Lupin, smiling. “Thanks very 
much. Could you leave it here on the desk for me?” Snape set down the smoking goblet, his eyes 
wandering between Harry and Lupin. “I was just showing Harry my grindylow,” said Lupin 
pleasantly, pointing at the tank. “Fascinating,” said Snape, without looking at it. “You 
should drink that directly, Lupin.” “Yes, yes, I will,” said Lupin. “I made an entire cauldronful,” Snape continued. “If 
you need more.” “I should probably take some again tomorrow. Thanks 
very much, Severus.” “Not at all,” said Snape, but there was a look in his 
eye Harry didn’t like. He backed out of the room, 
unsmiling and watchful. Harry looked curiously at the goblet. Lupin smiled. Page | 173 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling “Professor Snape has very kindly concocted a potion 
for me,” he said. “I have never been much of a potion- 
brewer and this one is particularly complex.” He 
picked up the goblet and sniffed it. “Pity sugar makes 
it useless,” he added, taking a sip and shuddering. “Why — ?” Harry began. Lupin looked at him and 
answered the unfinished question. “I’ve been feeling a bit off-color,” he said. “This potion 
is the only thing that helps. I am very lucky to be 
working alongside Professor Snape; there aren’t many 
wizards who are up to making it.” Professor Lupin took another sip and Harry had a 
crazy urge to knock the goblet out of his hands. “Professor Snape’s very interested in the Dark Arts,” 
he blurted out. “Really?” said Lupin, looking only mildly interested as 
he took another gulp of potion. “Some people reckon — ” Harry hesitated, then 
plunged recklessly on, “some people reckon he’d do 
anything to get the Defense Against the Dark Arts 
job.” Lupin drained the goblet and pulled a face. “Disgusting,” he said. “Well, Harry, I’d better get back 
to work. I’ll see you at the feast later.” “Right,” said Harry, putting down his empty teacup. The empty goblet was still smoking. “There you go,” said Ron. “We got as much as we 
could carry.” Page | 174 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling A shower of brilliantly colored sweets fell into Harry’s 
lap. It was dusk, and Ron and Hermione had just 
turned up in the common room, pink-faced from the 
cold wind and looking as though they’d had the time 
of their lives. “Thanks,” said Harry, picking up a packet of tiny 
black Pepper Imps. “What’s Hogsmeade like? Where 
did you go?” By the sound of it — everywhere. Dervish and 
Banges, the wizarding equipment shop, Zonko’s Joke 
Shop, into the Three Broomsticks for foaming mugs of 
hot butterbeer, and many places besides. “The post office, Harry! About two hundred owls, all 
sitting on shelves, all color-coded depending on how 
fast you want your letter to get there!” “Honeydukes has got a new kind of fudge; they were 
giving out free samples, there’s a bit, look — ” “We think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts 
at the Three Broomsticks — ” “Wish we could have brought you some butterbeer, 
really warms you up — ” “What did you do?” said Hermione, looking anxious. 
“Did you get any work done?” “No,” said Harry. “Lupin made me a cup of tea in his 
office. And then Snape came in. ...” He told them all about the goblet. Ron’s mouth fell 
open. “ Lupin drank it?” he gasped. “Is he mad?” Page | 175 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling Hermione checked her watch. “We’d better go down, you know, the feast’ll be 
starting in five minutes. ...” They hurried through the 
portrait hole and into the crowd, still discussing 
Snape. “But if he — you know” — Hermione dropped her 
voice, glancing nervously around — “if he was trying 
to — to poison Lupin — he wouldn’t have done it in 
front of Harry.” “Yeah, maybe,” said Harry as they reached the 
entrance hall and crossed into the Great Hall. It had 
been decorated with hundreds and hundreds of 
candle-filled pumpkins, a cloud of fluttering live bats, 
and many flaming orange streamers, which were 
swimming lazily across the stormy ceiling like brilliant 
watersnakes. The food was delicious; even Hermione and Ron, who 
were full to bursting with Honeydukes sweets, 
managed second helpings of everything. Harry kept 
glancing at the staff table. Professor Lupin looked 
cheerful and as well as he ever did; he was talking 
animatedly to tiny little Professor Flitwick, the 
Charms teacher. Harry moved his eyes along the 
table, to the place where Snape sat. Was he imagining 
it, or were Snape ’s eyes flickering toward Lupin more 
often than was natural? The feast finished with an entertainment provided by 
the Hogwarts ghosts. They popped out of the walls 
and tables to do a bit of formation gliding; Nearly 
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor ghost, had a great 
success with a reenactment of his own botched 
beheading. Page | 176 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling It had been such a pleasant evening that Harry’s good 
mood couldn’t even be spoiled by Malfoy, who 
shouted through the crowd as they all left the hall, 
“The dementors send their love, Potter!” Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed the rest of the 
Gryffindors along the usual path to Gryffindor Tower, 
but when they reached the corridor that ended with 
the portrait of the Fat Lady, they found it jammed 
with students. “Why isn’t anyone going in?” said Ron curiously. Harry peered over the heads in front of him. The 
portrait seemed to be closed. “Let me through, please,” came Percy’s voice, and he 
came bustling importantly through the crowd. “What’s the holdup here? You can’t all have forgotten 
the password — excuse me, I’m Head Boy — ” And then a silence fell over the crowd, from the front 
first, so that a chill seemed to spread down the 
corridor. They heard Percy say, in a suddenly sharp 
voice, “Somebody get Professor Dumbledore. Quick.” People’s heads turned; those at the back were 
standing on tiptoe. “What’s going on?” said Ginny, who had just arrived. A moment later, Professor Dumbledore was there, 
sweeping toward the portrait; the Gryffindors 
squeezed together to let him through, and Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione moved closer to see what the trouble 
was. “Oh, my — ” Hermione grabbed Harry’s arm. Page | 177 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling The Fat Lady had vanished from her portrait, which 
had been slashed so viciously that strips of canvas 
littered the floor; great chunks of it had been torn 
away completely. Dumbledore took one quick look at the ruined 
painting and turned, his eyes somber, to see 
Professors McGonagall, Lupin, and Snape hurrying 
toward him. “We need to find her,” said Dumbledore. “Professor 
McGonagall, please go to Mr. Filch at once and tell 
him to search every painting in the castle for the Fat 
Lady.” “You’ll be lucky!” said a cackling voice. It was Peeves the Poltergeist, bobbing over the crowd 
and looking delighted, as he always did, at the sight 
of wreckage or worry. “What do you mean, Peeves?” said Dumbledore 
calmly, and Peeves’s grin faded a little. He didn’t dare 
taunt Dumbledore. Instead he adopted an oily voice 
that was no better than his cackle. “Ashamed, Your Headship, sir. Doesn’t want to be 
seen. She’s a horrible mess. Saw her running through 
the landscape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodging 
between the trees. Crying something dreadful,” he 
said happily. “Poor thing,” he added unconvincingly. “Did she say who did it?” said Dumbledore quietly. “Oh yes, Professorhead,” said Peeves, with the air of 
one cradling a large bombshell in his arms. “He got 
very angry when she wouldn’t let him in, you see.” 
Peeves flipped over and grinned at Dumbledore from Page | 178 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling between his own legs. “Nasty temper he’s got, that 
Sirius Black.” Page | 179 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 